Armour Descriptions
Breastplate: Worn over a quilted jerkin (included in the cost), the breastplate gives maximum protection to the torso and still allows for rapid movement.
Brigandine Coat: A brigandine coat or 'coat-of-plates' uses large, overlapping steel plates sandwiched between two layers of heavy cloth or leather and riveted together. It provides heavy but effective protection to the torso.
Great Helm: A great helm is a heavy steel helmet that protects the entire head. Many are elaborately decorated. The armour penalty for a great helm applies to Listen and Spot tests only.
Leather Jerkin: This is a cheap and simply made jacket of cowhide. It is thick enough to stop a glancing blow but can be a little encumbering.
Mail Shirt: The mail shirt only protects the torso. The arms and perhaps the hips are protected by quilted cloth or heavy leather.
Mail Hauberk: A mail hauberk covers the torso, arms and upper legs with mail armour and comes with greaves of steel plate to protect the lower legs. Mail hauberks are found throughout the world, though the best are made in Turan.
Plate Armour: The ultimate in protection, plate armour consists of shaped steel plates that cover the entire body, from the tips of the toes to the crown of the head. Plate armour is always made to fit the wearer, a process that takes several months and usually require a sizable deposit upfront. There is a straight 20% chance that any given suit will almost fit a particular character, in which case it can be worn but with a maximum Dex bonus of +0. A suit that almost fits in this manner can be re-sized to fit the character perfectly, as though it were made-to-measure. This takes 1d4 weeks and costs 500 sp per week.
Quilted Jerkin: Painstakingly hand-sewn from twenty or more layers of linen, the quilted jerkin is light and usually fits well, allowing for almost completely unencumbered movement but not offering as much protection as a good suit of mail or scale armour.
Scale Corselet: This armour protects the torso only and is made from overlapping layers of small oval metal scales held together by woven laces. It is usually worn with some light limb protection such as thick boiled leather plates or even multiple layers of quilted linen or wool. Scale corselets are common among mercenary bands and some of the Shemite nomads and Hyrkanian warriors.
Scale Hauberk: A scale hauberk covers the arms, torso and legs almost to the knee with metal scales similar to those used for a scale corselet. The lower legs may be protected by light mail armour, steel greaves or hardened leather plates.
Steel Cap: All open-faced helmets, such as the morion helms favoured by Argossean soldiers and sailors, the horned helmets of the Nordheimr and the plain conical helms worn by the nomads of Shem are considered steel caps. Most steel caps are simple, mass-produced items intended to protect the ordinary soldiery from glancing blows.
Visored Helm: Visored helms include any helmets which have some means of opening out to allow the wearer to more easily see and breathe. Sallets, close-helmets and armets are examples of visored helms. The armour penalty for a visored helm applies to Listen and Spot tests only. The penalty to Spot tests does not apply if the visor is worn up but in that case the visored helm only grants +1 damage reduction, rather than +2. If the wearer has a free hand, he may put the visor up or down once per round as a free action.
Aspis: The traditional shield of the hoplite warrior, the aspis is a round metal shield with bevelled edges that is strapped to the forearm and held by a riveted leather strap in the warrior's off-hand. It is often sculpted with the army insignia or soldier's crest, adding a personal element to each aspis. Most soldiers using an aspis wield shorter swords or stout spears, weapons that are perfect for stabbing around the sides of the shield's round edge.
Buckler: This is a small, round shield made from steel and designed to deflect attacks rather than stop them directly. The buckler is held in the fist by a single handle. It is versatile enough to make an effective weapon, too, since it is relatively light and agile but also very hard. A buckler is classed as a light weapon if used to make shield bash attacks.
Duellist Cape: Originally a regular sight in Zingaran courts, the duellist cape is the 'shield' of the noble fencers and swordsmen of that nation. It is a heavy leather half-cape that hangs over the shoulder and upper arm of the fighter's off-hand, allowing him to block or misdirect light blows without compromising his fighting ability. A character wearing a duellist cape adds +2 to the bluff check to make feint combat manoeuvres.
Grille: A favourite of gladiators and pit fighters, the grille helmet is actually three pieces of armour sewn or riveted into one piece of fearsome headgear. A hard leather cap and chin strap is riveted to a hammered metal helmet, often shaped like a predatory beast, and a row of tempered metal bars are set as the faceplate of the helm. This sort of armour is mostly used by fighters that like getting up close with their enemies; grille wearers add +1 to their unarmed and grappling-based damages.
Hyperborean Hide: The wilds of northern Hyperborea are cold and harsh, filled with large predatory animals and brutal raiders. The older villages and tribes living by the traditional methods of their ancestors do not often keep heavy forges or smithies, leaving the ownership of finer quality armour to the tribal elders and veteran warriors. Most northern Hyperboreans make tough armour by layering bear or mountain goat hides before soaking them in pine sap. The resulting sheets are then bent and hammered into wearable shapes that are often decorated with fur, teeth and sometimes polished wood or even ivory.
Laminated Wood: Although rare by common Hyborian standards, the Black Kingdoms, Kush and some tribes of the Pictish Wilderness use thin sheets of carved, shaped and laminated soft woods to create highly protective suits of armour.
Large Shield: The term 'large shield' covers everything from a knight's triangular shield to the large round shields favoured by the Gundermen and Nordheimers. All large shields are made of layers of wood and softer materials such as canvas, rawhide and leather. Sometimes a large shield will have a steel boss in the centre. A large shield is usually strapped to the left arm and held by a handgrip in the left hand. It may instead be strapped to the shoulder to allow for two weapons or a two-handed weapon to be used, in which case it no longer confers a shield bonus to a character's Parry Defence. It does however confer a +2 shield bonus to Dodge Defence when dodging ranged attacks, rather than the usual +4. A shield strapped to the shoulder allows the wearer to parry attacks if he should be left without a weapon in hand, although it conveys no shield bonus to Parry Defence. Alternatively, a large shield may be strapped to the back, in which case it may not be used to parry with at all and confers no bonus to dodging ranged attacks but instead gives +2 DR against one opponent per round when the wearer is flanked. A large shield is classed as a one-handed weapon if used to make shield bash attacks.
Pit Straps: Light bands of leather are reinforced with copper or bronze, spiked and studded throughout to make pit straps. Pit straps get their name from their most common wearer, the pit fighters of Shadizar or Tortage. Due to the number of spikes, studs and rasps built into a set of pit straps, this armour inflicts 1d2 points of damage each round against any target currently grappling the wearer.
Plated Kit: For warriors that do not wish to wear full sets of plated mail, whether because of expense or weight, a plated kit is a set of leathers with several plates covering the vitals of the wearer. The shoulders, lower arms, thighs, abdomen and neck of the suit are heavily protected by these iron or even steel plates, but there are still many areas of the body that can be damaged. By taking a -4 penalty to hit against a plated kit, the Damage Reduction is reduced by 5.
Scarab: The traditional shield of the Stygian heavy infantry, a scarab shield is a fire-hardened bronze ring set around a deeply concave ebony bowl styled after the abdomen carapace of a scarab beetle. The bronze ring is traditionally sharpened to be used as a secondary weapon.
Suede Coat: Nobles and merchants can sometimes be found wearing long coats of padded suede to help protect them while retaining their opulent image. These add a +1 modifier to any reputation checks made to recognise the wearer, so long as they are trying to show off their higher status.
Targe: The targe is a small, round wooden shield covered in a layer of thick leather and studded with steel. It has two straps, one of which goes over the forearm, with the second being held in the hand. This allows for an off-hand weapon to be held in the same hand as the targe, though if this is done the targe's shield bonus to Parry Defence is reduced to +1. The shield bonus to Dodge Defence against ranged attacks is unaffected. A targe is classed as a one-handed weapon if used to make shield bash attacks.
Warhood: A coif of fine chain that weaves into a padded facemask, the warhood is not as protective as a true helm but it allows a warrior to wear any face he wishes on a battlefield. The faceplate of a warhood is purchased with a specific animal, creature or expression represented upon it. This faceplate adds a +1 bonus to all Intimidate checks made while wearing the warhood.
Wicker Tabard: Sewn from hardened strands of wicker, this simple piece of armour is draped over the head and shoulders of the wearer and often secured with stiff leather or sometimes hemp cord. It is a cheap and simple way to reduce slashing damage, but does little against blunt attacks. Bludgeoning damage reduces the Damage Reduction of a wicker tabard to 1.
