Feats
Feat Prerequisites Benefits
Acrobatic — +2 bonus on Jump and Tumble checks
Agile — +2 bonus on Balance and Escape Artist checks
Akbitanan Smith Shemite, Craft (weaponsmith) 12 ranks Create items of Akbitanan quality
Alertness — +2 bonus to Listen and Spot checks
Animal Affinity — +2 bonus on Handle Animal and Ride checks
Armour Proficiency (light) — No armour check penalty on attack rolls
Armour Proficiency (medium) Armour Proficiency (light) No armour check penalty on attack rolls
Armour Proficiency (heavy) Armour Proficiency (medium) No armour check penalty on attack rolls
Athletic — +2 bonus on Climb and Swim checks
Blind-Fight S — Reroll miss chance from concealment
Brawl S — Inflict more damage with unarmed attacks
Carouser Constitution 13, character level 5 Resist drunkenness, get social bonuses while drunk
Combat Expertise S Int 13 Reduce attack rolls to add to defence
Improved Disarm S Combat Expertise +4 bonus on disarm attempts; no attack of opportunity
Improved Feint S Combat Expertise Feint as a move action
Improved Trip S Combat Expertise +4 bonus on trip attempts; no attack of opportunity; free
attack on tripped foe
Whirlwind Attack S Combat Expertise, Dodge, Mobility, base attack bonus +4 Attack everyone within reach
Combat Reflexes S — Make additional attacks of opportunity
Web of Death Combat Reflexes, Weapon Focus, base attack bonus +5 Make attacks of opportunity on people who attack you
Dabbler Int 13, Knowledge (arcana) 6 ranks Minor magical ability
Deceitful — +2 bonus on Disguise and Forgery checks
Defensive Martial Arts S Khitan, Vendhyan or Himelian or must have the calm
of the adept spell
Bonuses to fighting defensively, trips, overruns and grapples
Deft Hands — +2 bonus on Sleight of Hand and Use Rope checks
Demon Killer Must have single-handedly defeated a monster of any
kind, Iron Will
+2 bonus to Terror saves, immune to Terror from defeated
monsters
Diligent — +2 bonus on Appraise and Decipher Script checks
Dodge S Dex 13, base dodge bonus +1 +1 bonus to Dodge Defence
Archer’s Bane S Dodge, base dodge bonus +6 Improve Dodge Defence against ranged attacks
Mobility S Dodge +4 bonus to Dodge Defence against some attacks of opportunity
Endurance S — +4 bonus on checks or saves to resist nonlethal damage
Diehard S Endurance Fight while dying
Exotic Weapon Proficiency* Base attack bonus +1 Avoid nonproficiency penalty with one weapon
Eyes of the Cat Spot 1 rank Gain low-light vision
Fighting-Madness Cimmerian, Himelian, Wazuli, Kushite, Nordheimr,
Pict, Southern Islander, Darfari or Tlazitlan, Con 13,
base attack bonus +1
Fight like a berserker
Fleet-Footed S — +10 feet base movement
Flyby Attack Fly speed Attack in the middle of flying move
Great Fortitude — +2 bonus on Fortitude saves
Gunderland Pike-and-
Shield Fighting S
Gunderman, base attack bonus +1, Shield Proficiency,
Martial Weapon Proficiency (pike)
Use a shield while fighting with a pike
Improved Critical* S Base attack bonus +8 Double threat range with one weapon
Greater Critical S* Improved Critical, base attack bonus +16 Triple threat range with one weapon
Improved Unarmed Strike S — Make unarmed attacks without penalty
Improved Grapple S Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike +4 bonus on grapple checks
Crushing Grip S Str 17, Improved Grapple, base attack bonus +8 Inflict ability score damage with a grapple
Improved Initiative S — +4 bonus on initiative checks
Investigator — +2 bonus on Gather Information and Search checks
Iron Will — +2 bonus on Will saves
Knowledgeable Int 13 +2 bonus on all Knowledge checks
Leadership Character level 6 Gain followers
Horde Cha 13, Leadership, nomad or barbarian level 12 Gain lots of followers
Light-Footed Hide 1 rank, Move Silently 1 rank, sneak attack +1d6 Bonuses while unarmoured
Lightning Reflexes — +2 bonus on Reflex saves
Martial Weapon Proficiency — Avoid nonproficiency penalty with one weapon
Mounted Combat S Ride 1 rank Negate hits on your mount with a Ride check
Mounted Archery S Mounted Combat Half penalties for firing while mounted
Ride-By Attack S Mounted Combat Move before and after mounted attack
Spirited Charge S Ride-By Attack Deal extra damage with a mounted charge
Trample S Mounted Combat Bonuses to mounted overrun attacks
Multiattack Three or more natural weapons Easier to attack with multiple natural weapons
Navigation Int 13, Profession (sailor) 12 ranks Never get lost at sea
Negotiator — +2 bonus on Diplomacy and Sense Motive checks
Nimble Fingers — +2 bonus on Disable Device and Open Lock checks
No Honour Must not have a code of honour +3 bonus to Will saves, but easy to corrupt
Parry S Str 13, base parry bonus +1 +1 bonus to Parry Defence
Intricate Swordplay S Weapon Focus, Parry, Combat Expertise, Cha 13 Add Charisma bonus to Parry Defence
Reflexive Parry S Dex 15, Combat Reflexes, Parry, base parry bonus +8 Parry even while flat-footed
121
Feats
Feat Prerequisites Benefits
Performer Cha 13 +2 bonus on all Perform checks
Persuasive — +2 bonus on Bluff and Intimidate checks
Pirate Code Expert Int 13, pirate level 2 Extensive knowledge of pirate codes
Point Blank Shot S — +1 bonus to attack and damage within 30 feet
Far Shot S Point Blank Shot Increase range increments on fired and thrown weapons
Precise Shot S Point Blank Shot No penalties for firing into melee
Improved Precise Shot S Dex 19, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +11 Ignore cover and concealment less than total.
Ranged Finesse S Precise Shot Make finesse attacks with a ranged weapon
Rapid Shot S Dex 13, Point Blank Shot One extra ranged attack each round
Shot On The Run S Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, base attack
bonus +4
Move before and after ranged attack
Poison Use Dex 13, base attack bonus +6 Use poison easily
Power Attack S Str 13 Reduce attack rolls to add to damage
Cleave S Power Attack Free attack when you slay an enemy
Great Cleave S Cleave Cleave an unlimited number of times per round
Improved Bull Rush S Power Attack +4 bonus on bull rushes; no attack of opportunity
Improved Overrun S Power Attack +4 bonus on overruns; opponent cannot avoid you
Improved Sunder S Power Attack +4 bonus on attack rolls against held objects; no attack of
opportunity
Greater Sunder S Improved Sunder, base attack bonus +6 Free attack if you destroy an opponent’s weapon
Monster Slayer S Power Attack, base attack bonus +3 More damage while Power Attacking big creatures
Priest Scholar level 4, scholar background: lay priest, other
requirements by religion
Varied benefits when dealing with the faithful
Quick Draw S Base attack bonus +1 Draw a weapon as a free action
Run S — Move five times normal speed as a full-round action
Self-Sufficient — +2 bonus on Heal and Survival checks
Shield Proficiency — No armour check penalty on attack rolls
Simple Weapon Proficiency* — Avoid nonproficiency penalties
Skill Focus* — +3 bonus to checks using a single skill
Sleep Mastery Wis 13, Con 13 Gain sleep-related benefits
Sneak Subdual Sneak attack +1d6, base attack bonus +1 Deal nonlethal damage with sneak attacks
Spawn of Dagoth Hill Kothian or Zamorian, 1st level only Become inhuman
Stealthy — +2 bonus to Hide and Move Silently
Armoured Stealth Dex 13, Hide 4 ranks, Move Silently 1 rank, Armour
Proficiency (Light), Stealthy
Avoid light armour check penalties to stealth
Steely Gaze S Intimidate 8 ranks, Cha 13 Demoralise opponents as a free action
Menacing Aura S Cha 15, Intimidate 16 ranks, Steely Gaze
Striking Cobra S Dex 15, Cha 13, Bluff 6 ranks, base attack bonus +6 Gain a surprise round all to yourself
Stunning Attack S Dex 13, Str 13, base attack bonus +8 Stun opponent with attack
Superior Armourer Aquilonian, Kothian, Hyrkanian/Turanian or Zingaran,
Craft (armourer) 12 ranks
Create superior quality armour
Toughness S — Gain bonus hit points
Track — Follow tracks with the Survival skill
Two-Weapon Combat Base attack bonus +1 Fight with a weapon in each hand
Improved Two-
Weapon Combat S
Two-Weapon Combat, base attack bonus +6 Fight better with a weapon in each hand
Two-Weapon Defence S Parry, Two-Weapon Combat Trade off-hand attacks for bonus to Parry Defence
Weapon Focus* S Base attack bonus +1 +1 bonus to attack rolls with one weapon
Weapon Specialisation* S Weapon Focus, soldier level 4 +2 bonus to damage rolls with one weapon
Greater Weapon Focus* S Weapon Focus, soldier level 8 Further +1 bonus to attack rolls with one weapon
Greater Weapon
Specialisation* S
Weapon Specialisation, Weapon Focus, Greater
Weapon Focus, soldier level 12
Further +2 bonus to damage rolls with one weapon
Zingaran Surprise S Zingaran, base attack bonus +4, sneak attack +3d6 Bypass Uncanny Dodge more easily
Sorcery Feats Prerequisite Benefits
Adept* Scholar level 12+, must know three spells from one
sorcery style
Halve casting time for one style
Focused Magical Link Hexer, magic attack bonus +3, Craft (fine art, sculpture,
or similar) 1 rank
Create magical links to your victims
Hexer Magic attack bonus +1, Sorcery Style: Curses +2 bonus to magic attack rolls with the Curses style
Ritual Sacrifice Magic attack bonus +1, base attack bonus +1 Gain power points from killing victims
Opportunistic Sacrifice Magic attack bonus +3, base attack bonus +3, Base PP
4, Ritual Sacrifice
Gain sacrifice benefits from anyone you kill
Tortured Sacrifice Ritual Sacrifice, magic attack bonus +2, base attack
bonus +2
Gain extra power points by prolonging death
Sorcerer’s Boon* Int 13, Scholar level 4, must know two or more sorcery
styles
Gain an advanced spell
Summoner Magic attack bonus +1, Sorcery Style: Summoning +2 bonus to magic attack rolls
Augment Summoning Summoner, magic attack bonus +4 Summoned creatures gain +4 to Strength and Constitution
* A character may gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack and instead apply to a new weapon or skill.
S A soldier may select this feat as one of his soldier bonus feats.
122
Feats
Akbitanan
Smith (General)
You have been trained in the fabled smithcraft of Akbitan.
Prerequisites: Must be a Shemite, Craft (weaponsmith)
12 ranks.
Benefit: You may create weapons of Akbitanan quality,
though this takes significantly longer than usual due to
their very high cost. Creating a weapon of Akbitanan
quality follows the usual rules for the Craft skill
(see page 96).
Special: You will require a source of Akbitanan (or similarly
high quality) steel to perform your craft. Furthermore,
if you manufacture Akbitanan quality weapons outside
Akbitan itself, you are likely to incur the enmity of the
smiths of the city.
Alertness (General)
You are rarely caught off guard.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Listen and Spot checks.
Animal Affinity (General)
You have a knack for dealing with animals.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Handle Animal and
Ride checks.
Archer’s Bane (General)
You are expert at dodging arrows and other ranged
weapons, particularly those hurled or shot great distances,
taking advantage of the missile’s flight time to ensure you
are not in its path.
Prerequisites: Dodge, base dodge bonus +6.
Benefit: You gain a +1 dodge bonus to Dodge
Defence against all ranged weapons for each range
increment through which the weapon must be shot
or thrown to reach you. This dodge bonus is doubled
if you are fighting defensively or executing the total
defence standard action.
Armour Proficiency
(Heavy) (General)
You know how to wear and move in
plate, scale and the other heavy
armours.
Prerequisite: Armour
Proficiency (medium).
Benefit: See Armour Proficiency (light).
Normal: See Armour Proficiency (light).
Armour Proficiency
(Light) (General)
You know how to best wear and move in light armour.
Benefit: When you wear a type of armour with which you
are proficient, the armour check penalty for that armour
applies only to Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, Hide, Jump,
Move Silently, Sleight of Hand and Tumble checks.
Normal: A character who is wearing armour with which
he is not proficient applies its armour check penalty to
attack rolls and to all skill checks that involve moving,
including Ride.
Armour Proficiency
(Medium) (General)
You know how best to wear brigandine and other medium
armour.
Prerequisite: Armour Proficiency (light).
Benefit: See Armour Proficiency (light).
Normal: See Armour Proficiency (light).
Armoured Stealth
(General)
Even in armour, your tread makes no more sound than
that of a panther. This is accomplished through a mixture
of native sneakiness and cunningly padding, oiling and
blackening your armour.
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Hide 4 ranks, Move Silently 1 rank,
Armour Proficiency (Light), Stealthy.
Benefit: Whenever you are wearing light armour that you
have personally prepared, you do not apply its armour
check penalty (if any) to Move Silently or Hide checks.
To prepare light armour for stealth initially requires one
hour and materials worth 5 sp, then ten minutes per day in
maintenance time.
Athletic (General)
You have a natural talent for athletics.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Climb and Swim
checks.
Augment Summoning
(Sorcery)
The creatures you summon are especially strong and tough.
Prerequisites: Summoner, magic attack bonus +4.
123
Feats
Benefit: Each creature you conjure with any spell from the
Summoning sorcery style gains a +4 enhancement bonus
to Strength and Constitution for the duration of the spell
that summoned it.
Blind-Fight (General)
You know how to fight when you are unable to see.
Benefit: In melee, if you miss because of concealment, you
can reroll your miss chance once to see if you actually hit.
An invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting
you in melee. That is, you can still dodge or parry your
assailant and he does not get the usual +2 bonus to melee
attack rolls for being invisible. The invisible attacker’s
bonuses do still apply for ranged attacks, however. You take
only half the usual penalty to speed for being unable to see.
Darkness and poor visibility in general reduces your speed
to three-quarters of normal, instead of one-half.
Normal: Regular attack roll modifiers for invisible attackers
trying to hit you apply and you cannot dodge or parry
your attacker. The speed reduction for darkness and poor
visibility also applies.
Brawl (General)
You are an expert brawler or martial artist, often knocking
out or even killing an opponent with a single punch.
Benefit: You deal 1d6 + Strength modifi er points of
damage with an unarmed strike. You may elect to inflict
either lethal or nonlethal damage with no penalty.
Normal: Without this feat, a character deals only 1d3
points of nonlethal damage with an unarmed strike.
Carouser (General)
You can drink others under the table and are never too
drunk to fight.
Prerequisites: Constitution 13, character level 5.
Benefit: You suffer no penalties for drunkenness, however
much alcohol you drink. Furthermore, you gain a +2
circumstance bonus to all Bluff and Gather Information
checks related to your drinking companions after
at least two hours of heavy drinking. In addition,
after a night of wenching, drinking or other partying, you
heal normally as though you had had a full night’s rest.
Normal: Drunk characters have at least a –2 penalty to
attack rolls and Defence.
Special: Note that this feat does not assist with resisting
drugs other than alcohol, including lotus-based preparations
of any kind such as Black Lotus Wine (see page 275).
Cleave (General)
You know how to follow up a mighty blow.
Prerequisite: Power Attack.
Benefit: If you deal a creature enough damage to take it
out of the fight, typically by dropping it to below zero hit
points or killing it, you get an immediate, extra melee attack
against another creature within reach. You cannot take a
five foot step before making this extra attack. The extra
attack must be with the same weapon and is at the same
bonus as the attack that dropped the previous creature. You
can use this ability once per round.
Combat Expertise
(General)
You are an expert at fighting cautiously so as to minimise
the risk of being hit.
Prerequisite: Int 13.
Benefit: When you use the attack action or full attack
action in melee, you can take a penalty of as much as –5
on your attack and add the same number (up to +5) to
your Defence. This number may not exceed your base
attack bonus. The changes to attack rolls and Defence
last until your next action.
Special: If you use combat expertise while fighting
defensively, the bonuses are cumulative.
Combat Reflexes
(General)
You are skilled at taking advantage of your
opponent’s mistakes.
Benefit: You may make a number of additional
attacks of opportunity equal to your Dexterity
bonus. This feat also allows you to make
attacks of opportunity while flat-footed.
Normal: A character without this feat can
make only one attack of opportunity per
round and cannot make attacks of
opportunity while flat-footed.
Special: The Combat Reflexes feat
does not allow a thief who has the
opportunist special ability to use it
more than once per round.
‘Will you mock me and then lay hands on me?’
grated the barbarian, his quick rage leaping up;
and he returned the push with an open-handed
blow that knocked his tormentor back against the
rude-hewn table.
– The Tower of the Elephant
124
Feats
Crushing Grip (General)
The mighty thews of your hand and arm can crush a man’s
limb or neck in moments if you can get a grip on him.
Prerequisites: Str 17, Improved Grapple, base attack
bonus +8.
Benefit: If you manage to grapple an opponent and inflict
damage on him, you may choose to inflict some or all of
the rolled damage as damage to his Constitution, Dexterity
or Strength, at your choice. He gets a Fortitude saving
throw (DC 10 + your Strength bonus + ½ your Base attack
bonus) for half damage. Crushing Grip may be continued
from round to round, so long as you are grappling your
opponent and inflicting damage upon him.
Dabbler (General)
Though you might not be a formally trained sorcerer,
you have learned a little magic here and there, enough to
perhaps get you out of a tight spot or two – if it works.
Prerequisites: Int 13, Knowledge (arcana) 6 ranks.
Benefit: Choose a sorcery style from the following:
Counterspells, Curses or Divination. Up to once during
any given month, you may make a Knowledge (arcana)
check to recall a small amount of sorcerous lore that could
prove useful to your current situation. You do not have
a true, permanent understanding of the style you access
in this way but you are able to remember just enough to
attempt to use the sorcery in question. You need not meet
any prerequisites for the style except those that require
a certain number of ranks in a particular skill. If your
skill check beats DC 15, the Games Master will select an
appropriate sorcerous effect from among the basic spells to
which you are granted temporary access – enough to cast
once and once only. The effect will be something useful to
your situation, though in most cases it will not be sufficient
to completely defeat your opposition on its own. If your
Knowledge (arcana) check beats DC 25, the sorcerous
effect may be drawn from the advanced spells of a style
you dabble in. You may also spend a Fate Point to cast
a spell using this feat. If you do so, you do not need to
make a Knowledge (arcana) check – the spell may be
basic or advanced – and this does not count towards
your limit of one spell per month.
Special: You expend Power Points to cast the
spell as usual. If you do not already have
any Power Points when you select
this feat, you immediately
acquire Base Power Points
of 2 + Wisdom modifier.
Deceitful (General)
You live a life of underhanded dealings and deceit.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Disguise and Forgery
checks.
Defensive Martial Arts
(General)
You have been trained to avoid blows and other attacks
directed at you in battle.
Prerequisites: Must be Khitan, Vendhyan or Himelian or
must have the calm of the adept spell (see page 262).
Benefit: You gain an additional +2 bonus to Defence when
fighting defensively or using the total defence action. This
grants you a total of +4 bonus to Defence when fighting
defensively and a total of +6 bonus to Defence when using
the total defence action. Furthermore, you gain a +2 bonus
to opposed Strength and Dexterity checks any time you
make trip, overrun or grapple attacks or when you try to
avoid trips, overruns and grapples made against you.
Normal: A character using the total defence action without
this feat gains a +2 bonus to Defence when fighting
defensively and a +4 bonus to Defence when using the
total defence action.
Deft Hands (General)
Your hands are naturally dextrous.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Sleight of Hand and
Use Rope checks.
Demon Killer (General)
You have hardened yourself to supernatural terrors.
Prerequisites: Iron Will, must have single-handedly
defeated a monster of any kind. Not available to Southern
Islanders or Tlazitlans.
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to Will saves versus Terror.
Each time that you defeat a new monster, you become
immune to the Terror effect of that creature and others like
it. You are immune to any fear effects used by a creature of
a type you have slain.
Diehard (General)
You can endure wounds that would drop another man.
Prerequisite: Endurance.
Benefit: When reduced to between –1 and –9 hit points,
you automatically become stable. You do not have to roll
d% to see if you lose one Hit Point each round.
When reduced to negative hit points, you may choose to
act as if you are disabled, rather than dying.
125
Feats
You must make this decision as soon as you are reduced to
negative hit points, even if it is not your turn. If you do
not choose to act as if you are disabled, you immediately
fall unconscious.
When using this feat, you can take either a single move or
standard action each turn but not both. You cannot take a
full round action. You can take a move action without further
injuring yourself, though if you perform any standard action
(or any other action deemed as strenuous, including some
free actions) you take one point of damage after completing
the act. If you reach –10 hit points, you die.
Normal: A character without this feat that is reduced to
between –1 and –9 hit points is unconscious and dying.
Diligent (General)
You are skilled at evaluating objects and writing.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Appraise and Decipher
Script checks.
Dodge (General)
You are very nimble on your feet, ducking and weaving in
and out of combat to avoid your enemies’ attacks.
Prerequisites: Dex 13, base dodge bonus +1.
Benefit: You gain a +1 dodge bonus to
your Dodge Defence.
Endurance (General)
You have incredible stamina.
Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on the following checks
and saving throws: Swim checks made to resist nonlethal
damage, Constitution checks made to continue running,
Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage
from a forced march, Constitution checks made to hold
your breath, Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal
damage from starvation or thirst, Fortitude saving
throws made to avoid nonlethal damage from hot
or cold environments and Fortitude saving throws
made to resist damage from suffocation. In addition,
you may sleep in light or medium armour without
becoming fatigued.
Normal: A character without this feat who sleeps in
medium or heavier armour is automatically fatigued
the next day.
Exotic Weapon
Proficiency (General)
You have learned how to use one of the more unusual
weapons of the Hyborian age.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: Pick a single exotic weapon. You
may make attack rolls with that weapon without a
nonproficiency penalty.
Normal: A character who uses a weapon with which he is
not proficient takes a –4 penalty on attack rolls.
Special: You can gain Exotic Weapon Proficiency
multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to
a new type of exotic weapon.
Eyes Of The Cat
(General)
You see more clearly in the dark than many men
can in full daylight.
Prerequisites: Spot 1 rank, may only be
taken at 1st level.
Benefit: You gain low-light vision. That is,
you can see twice as far as ordinary humans
by starlight, moonlight, torchlight or other
conditions of poor illumination. You can
even distinguish colour and detail under
these low-light conditions.
126
Feats
Far Shot (General)
You are skilled in shooting at very long ranges.
Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot.
Benefit: When you use a projectile weapon, such as a
bow, its range increment increases by one-half (multiply
by 1.5). When you use a thrown weapon, its range
increment doubles.
Special: A Hyrkanian or Turanian need not have the Point
Blank Shot feat before selecting this feat.
Fighting-Madness
(General)
You can enter a powerful, enraged state.
Prerequisites: Must be a Cimmerian, Himelian Tribesman,
Wazuli, Kushite, Nordheimr, Pict, Southern Islander,
Darfari or Tlazitlan, Con 13, base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: Up to once per day, you can enter a fightingmadness
as a free action. You temporarily gain +4 to
Strength, +4 to Constitution and a +2 morale bonus on
Will saving throws but suffer a –2 penalty to Defence.
While in a fighting-madness, you cannot use skills or
abilities that require patience and concentration, including
sneak attacks and finesse fighting. You can use any feat
you might have except for Combat Expertise, sorcery feats
and Skill Focus, if the latter is tied to a skill that requires
patience or concentration. A fighting-madness lasts for
a number of rounds equal to 3 + your newly improved
Constitution bonus. The increase in Constitution grants
additional hit points but these hit points go away when
the fighting-madness ends, possibly killing the warrior!
You may voluntarily end the fighting-madness at any time.
You may not enter a fighting-madness if you are under
the effect of the barbarian class feature Crimson Mist
and vice versa.
Fleet-Footed (General)
You are fast on your feet.
Benefit: You gain an enhancement bonus of +10 feet
to your speed when wearing light or no armour (and
not carrying a heavy load) or an enhancement bonus
of +5 feet to your speed when wearing medium or
heavy armour.
Special: You can select this feat more than once,
up to a maximum of three times. Its
benefits stack.
Flyby Attack (General)
This feat allows a creature to hit as it flies past.
Prerequisite: Fly speed.
Benefit: When flying, you can take a move action
(including a dive) and another standard action at any point
during the move. You cannot take a second move action
during a round when you make a flyby attack.
Normal: Without this feat, the creature takes a standard
action either before or after its move.
Focused Magical Link
(Sorcery)
You are capable of creating a ‘voodoo doll’ or similar focus
so as to break down a target’s resistance to your curses.
Prerequisites: Craft (fine art, sculpture or similar) 1 rank,
Hexer, magic attack bonus +3.
Benefit: You may enhance your magical link (see page
237) by crafting a representation of your victim, such as
a doll or a painting, then adding additional connections
to the victim. You take one full day, with a raw materials
cost of 10 silver pieces, after which you may make an
appropriate Craft check and refer to the table below to
determine the result.
Craft Check
Result Bonus To Magical Attack Rolls
14 or less No bonus; all materials used are wasted
(lost), including any magical links
15–24 +1
25–34 +2
35–44 +3
And so on And so on
Furthermore, for each additional object you incorporate
into the representation, up to a maximum of four, the
enhancement bonus increases by +1. Each object must
be one that by itself could be used as a magical link
to the victim.
Great Cleave (General)
Your blows are the stuff of legends.
Prerequisites: Str 13, Cleave, base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: This feat works as Cleave, except there is no limit
to the number of times you can use it per round.
127
Feats
Greater Critical
(General)
Select one weapon that you have already applied the
Improved Critical feat to. You have learned to wield that
weapon with such skill as to inflict devastating amounts of
damage on a regular basis.
Prerequisites: Improved Critical, base attack bonus +16.
Benefit: When using the weapon you selected, your threat
range is tripled. This supersedes the doubling provided by
the Improved Critical feat.
Special: This feat can be gained multiple times. The effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new
weapon. A character who has seven or more levels of the
barbarian class may not select this feat. If a character with
this feat ever gains seven or more levels in the barbarian
class, he immediately and permanently loses this feat.
Great Fortitude
(General)
You are hardier than most other people of your race.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saving throws.
Greater Sunder
(General)
As a follow-up to sundering an opponent’s weapon, you
can make an immediate attack on him.
Prerequisites: Improved Sunder, base attack bonus +6.
Benefit: If you completely destroy an opponent’s weapon
in melee combat, you immediately get a melee attack
against that opponent as if you had not used that attack to
sunder the weapon.
Greater Weapon Focus
(General)
Choose one type of weapon for which you have already
selected Weapon Focus. You are extraordinarily skilled
with this weapon.
Prerequisites: Weapon Focus, soldier level 8.
Benefit: You add +1 to all attack rolls you make using the
selected weapon. This bonus stacks with other bonuses to
attack rolls, including the bonus granted by the Weapon
Focus feat.
Special: This feat can be gained multiple times. The effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new
weapon. A character who has seven or more levels of the
barbarian class may not select this feat. If a character with
this feat ever gains seven or more levels in the barbarian
class, he immediately and permanently loses this feat.
Greater Weapon
Specialisation (General)
Choose one type of weapon for which you have already
selected Weapon Specialisation and Greater Weapon
Focus. You are supremely good at inflicting damage with
this weapon.
Prerequisites: Weapon Specialisation, Greater Weapon
Focus, soldier level 12.
Benefit: You add +2 to all damage dealt by the weapon
with which you have specialised. This bonus stacks with
other damage bonuses, including the bonus granted by the
Weapon Specialisation feat.
Special: This feat can be gained multiple times. The effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new
weapon. A character who has seven or more levels of the
barbarian class may not select this feat. If a character with
this feat ever gains seven or more levels in the barbarian
class, he immediately and permanently loses this feat.
Gunderland
Pike-and-Shield
Fighting (General)
You have trained in Gunderland’s pike-and-shield
techniques, learning to control your shield with just a few
movements of your body and arm while both your hands
grip the pike.
Prerequisites: Gunderman, Martial Weapon Proficiency
(pike), Shield Proficiency, base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: You may wield a large shield and pike
simultaneously, without penalty to the use of the pike.
The large shield only grants a +3 shield bonus to Parry
Defence rather than the usual +4. The shield confers
its full +4 shield bonus to your Dodge Defence when
dodging ranged attacks.
Normal: A large shield can be strapped to
the back or shoulder to allow for use of a
two-handed weapon but the bonus to Parry
Defence is reduced to +0 and the shield bonus
to Dodge Defence against ranged attacks is
reduced to +2.
Special: The Games Master may permit a
non-Gunderman to select this feat if he trains
and fights in a Gunderland pike regiment.
128
Feats
Hexer (Sorcery)
You are particularly adept at cursing your opponents.
Prerequisites: Magic attack bonus +1, Sorcery Style:
Curses.
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to your magic attack roll
whenever you cast a spell from the Curses sorcery style.
Horde (General)
In addition to your own followers, you can call upon a great
horde of allied tribes, clans or nomad bands to assist you
with your dreams of raiding or conquest – so long as they
are assured there will be plenty of plunder for all involved
and so long as your leadership is strong and successful.
Prerequisites: Cha 13, Leadership, nomad level 12 or
barbarian level 12.
Benefit: You may assemble a horde of barbarians or nomads
in addition to the followers granted by your Leadership
feat. You must publicise your planned cause by sending out
messengers to a number of tribes, at a cost per month of
one week of your time and 100 gold lunas in gifts and other
expense. If you do so, you will gain a number of additional
followers each month equal to the followers gained solely
from your Leadership feat. These additional followers have
less loyalty to you than do your personal followers but
will follow you for as long as your horde is successful in
battles and raids. You must feed the horde and provide it
with plenty of opportunities for plunder or it will disperse.
Furthermore, there is a straight 20% chance per month
that a rival leader of 1d3 levels lower than you will
challenge your leadership, usually in an informal duel.
If you lose this challenge, the majority of the horde
goes off with its new leader, leaving you with only
your original followers. If you lose your horde
by inactivity or challenge, you may not
attempt to call another horde for
at least three months.
Special: A character with levels in both the barbarian and
nomad classes may combine the two class levels together
for purposes of qualifying for this feat, so an 8th level
barbarian/4th level nomad would qualify, for example.
Improved Bull Rush
(General)
You rarely slip when pushing an enemy before you.
Prerequisite: Power Attack.
Benefit: When you perform a bull rush you do not provoke
an attack of opportunity from the defender. You also gain a
+4 bonus on the opposed Strength check you make to push
back the defender.
Improved Critical
(General)
Select one type of weapon that you are proficient with. You
have learned to wield that weapon with such skill as to
inflict devastating quantities of damage very frequently.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +8.
Benefit: When using the weapon you selected, your threat
range is doubled.
Special: This feat can be gained multiple times. The effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new
weapon. A character who has seven or more levels of the
barbarian class may not select this feat. If a character with
this feat ever gains seven or more levels in the barbarian
class, he immediately and permanently loses this feat.
Improved Disarm
(General)
You are skilled at sending your opponent’s weapon flying.
Prerequisite: Combat Expertise.
Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity
when you attempt to disarm an opponent, nor does the
opponent have a chance to disarm you. You also gain a +4
bonus on the opposed attack roll you make to disarm your
opponent.
Normal: See the normal disarm rules (page 206).
Improved Feint
(General)
You make a tricky opponent for anyone.
Prerequisite: Combat Expertise.
Benefit: You can feint in combat as a move action.
Normal: Feinting in combat is a standard action (see
page 207).
‘I came into Ghulistan to raise a horde and plunder
the kingdoms to the south – your own among them.
Being a chief of the Afghulis was only a start. If
I can conciliate them, I’ll have a dozen tribes
following me within a year. But if I can’t I’ll ride
back to the steppes and loot the Turanian borders
with the kozaki.’
– The People of the Black Circle
129
Feats
Improved Grapple
(General)
You have a knack for grabbing and keeping hold of your
opponents.
Prerequisite: Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike.
Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when
you make a touch attack to start a grapple. You also gain a
+4 bonus on all grapple checks, regardless of whether you
started the grapple.
Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack of
opportunity when you make a touch attack to start a grapple.
Improved Initiative
(General)
You are fast to react to any threat.
Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on initiative checks.
Improved Overrun
(General)
You barrel over your opponents with ease.
Prerequisite: Power Attack.
Benefit: When you attempt to overrun an opponent,
the target may not choose to avoid you. You also gain a
+4 bonus on your Strength check to knock down your
opponent.
Normal: Without this feat, the target of an overrun can
choose to avoid you or block you.
Improved Precise Shot
(General)
You can put your shots exactly where you want them.
Prerequisites: Dex 19, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot,
base attack bonus +11.
Benefit: Your ranged attacks ignore the bonus to Defence
granted to targets by anything less than total cover. It also
ignores the miss chance granted to targets by anything less
than total concealment. Total cover and total concealment
provide their normal benefits against your ranged attacks.
In addition, when you shoot or throw ranged weapons
at a grappling opponent you automatically strike at the
opponent you have chosen.
Normal: See the normal rules on the effects of cover and
concealment on pages 196–197. Without this feat, a
character who shoots or throws a ranged weapon at a target
involved in a grapple must roll randomly to see which
grappling combatant the attack strikes.
Improved Sunder
(General)
You are skilled at hitting weapons, shields or anything held
in your opponent’s hands.
Prerequisite: Power Attack.
Benefit: When you strike at an object held or carried by
an opponent (such as a weapon or shield) you do not
provoke an attack of opportunity. You also gain a +4
bonus on any attack roll made to attack an object held
or carried by another character.
Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack
of opportunity when you strike at an object held or
carried by another character.
Improved Trip
(General)
You know how to knock your opponents
down and hit them while they are there.
Prerequisite: Combat Expertise.
Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of
opportunity when you attempt to trip an
opponent while you are unarmed. You also
gain a +4 bonus on your Strength check
to trip your opponent. If you trip an
opponent in melee combat, you
immediately get a melee attack
against that opponent as if you
had not used that attack for the
trip attempt.
130
Feats
Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack of
opportunity when you attempt to trip an opponent while
you are unarmed.
Improved Two-Weapon
Combat (General)
You are an expert at fighting with a weapon in each hand.
Prerequisites: Two-Weapon Combat, base attack bonus +6.
Benefit: When you fight with two weapons and take a full
attack action, you may make a second attack with the offhand
weapon, albeit at a –5 penalty. For every five points
of base attack bonus you have above +6, you may make one
additional attack with your off-hand weapon when taking
a full attack action, to a maximum of four attacks at a Base
attack bonus of +16. However, for each attack after the
first, the attack bonus is reduced by a further –5 penalty.
For example, a 20th level soldier with base attacks of
+20/+15/+10/+5 who is wielding an arming sword and
poniard may make attacks with the arming sword at a
base of +20/+15/+10/+5 and with the poniard at a
base of +20/+15/+10/+5.
Normal: A character wielding a weapon in
each hand may only make one attack
per round with the off-hand
weapon.
Improved Unarmed
Strike (General)
You are skilled at fighting without weapons.
Benefit: You are considered to be armed even when
you are unarmed; that is, you do not provoke attacks or
opportunity from armed opponents when you attack them
while unarmed and you may make attacks of opportunity
as if you have a weapon in hand. In addition, your unarmed
strikes can deal lethal or nonlethal damage, at your option.
You may also parry attacks without penalty when you do
not have a weapon, shield or other object in your hands.
Normal: Without this feat, you are considered unarmed
when attacking with an unarmed strike and you can deal
only nonlethal damage with such an attack. You suffer a –4
penalty to Parry Defence when parrying unarmed.
Intricate Swordplay
(General)
You have been trained in the fl ashy, Western style of
swordplay, perhaps at one of the great fencing schools of
Zingara or Aquilonia.
Prerequisites: Cha 13, Weapon Focus (broadsword or
arming sword), Parry, Combat Expertise.
Benefit: Whenever you have a broadsword or arming
sword in one hand and are wearing no heavier than
medium armour, you may add your Charisma bonus as a
parry bonus to your Parry Defence.
Special: A character who has seven or more levels of the
barbarian class may not select this feat. If a character with
this feat ever gains seven or more levels in the barbarian
class, he immediately and permanently loses this feat.
Investigator (General)
You look past the obvious to see what is really going on.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Gather Information and
Search checks.
Iron Will (General)
You have a formidable sense of self-control.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Will saving throws.
Knowledgeable
(General)
You are a natural scholar.
Prerequisite: Int 13.
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to all Knowledge checks.
131
Feats
Leadership
(General)
Your powerful leadership qualities enable you to
draw a band of loyal followers to your side.
Prerequisite: Character level 6th.
Benefits: Having this feat enables a character to
attract loyal companions and devoted followers to
assist him. You gain a single cohort – a ‘sidekick’
close to your ability – and a variable number of
lesser followers according to the table below. Your
base Leadership score is equal to your character
level + your Charisma modifier.
Leadership Modifiers: Several factors can
affect a character’s Leadership score, causing
it to vary from the base score. The noble class
feature Enhanced Leadership gives a bonus to
a character’s Leadership score. A character’s
Reputation modifier to skill checks (see page 85)
applies to his Leadership score for cohorts only.
Other forms of reputation affect the Leadership
score as shown on the table below.
Leader’s Reputation Modifier
Great renown +2
Fairness and generosity +1
Special power +1
Failure –1
Aloofness –1
Cruelty –2
Other modifiers apply to attracting followers only:
The Leader... Modifier
Has a stronghold, base of operations,
temple, or the like
+2
Has the Priest feat +1
Is a king, shah, or other supreme rank
in a nation
+4*
Moves around a lot –1
Caused the death of other followers –1
*A king will doubtless have other armies under his
command as well as his own followers; however, the only
forces he can trust implicitly are those he gains directly
through the Leadership feat.
Cohorts have different priorities. When the
character tries to attract a cohort, use any of
the following modifiers that apply.
The Leader... Modifier
Has a demonic pact –2*
Has a code of honour different
from that of the cohort
–1
Has no code of honour, but the
cohort does (or vice versa)
–2
Caused the death of a cohort –2**
* This penalty only applies if the
cohort fears and mistrusts those
allied with demons.
** Cumulative per cohort killed.
Leadership
Score
Cohort
Level
Number of Followers by Level
1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th
1 or lower — — — — — — —
2 1st — — — — — —
3 1st — — — — — —
4 2nd 1 — — — — —
5 2nd 2 — — — — —
6 3rd 3 — — — — —
7 3rd 5 — — — — —
8 4th 8 — — — — —
9 4th 12 — — — — —
10 5th 18 — — — — —
11 5th 25 — — — — —
12 6th 32 1 — — — —
13 6th 40 1 — — — —
14 7th 50 2 1 — — —
15 7th 60 2 1 — — —
16 8th 70 3 1 — — —
17 8th 85 3 1 — — —
18 9th 100 4 2 1 — —
19 9th 120 5 2 1 — —
20 10th 150 6 3 1 — —
21 10th 200 8 3 1 — —
22 11th 250 10 4 2 1 —
23 11th 300 12 4 2 1 —
24 12th 350 14 5 2 1 —
25 12th 400 16 5 2 1 —
26 13th 500 20 6 3 1 —
27 13th 600 24 6 3 1 —
28 14th 800 32 8 4 2 1
29 14th 1000 40 10 4 2 1
30 15th 1250 50 13 5 2 1
31 15th 1500 60 15 5 2 1
32 16th 2000 80 20 6 3 1
33 16th 2500 100 25 7 3 1
34 17th 3000 120 30 8 4 2
35 or
higher
17th 4000 160 40 10 4 2
132
Feats
Leadership Score: A character’s base Leadership score equals
his level plus any Charisma modifier he has. In order to take
into account negative Charisma modifiers, this table allows
for very low Leadership scores but the character must still
be 6th level or higher in order to gain the Leadership feat.
Outside factors can affect a character’s Leadership score, as
detailed above.
Cohort Level: The character can attract a cohort of up to
this level. Regardless of a character’s Leadership score, he
can only recruit a cohort who is two or more levels lower
than himself. A character can try to attract a cohort of a
particular race, class and code of honour.
Cohorts earn XP as follows:
The cohort does not count as a party member when
determining the party’s XP.
Divide the cohort’s level by the level of the character who
attracted him with the Leadership feat.
Multiply this result by the total XP awarded to this
character and add that number of Experience Points to the
cohort’s total.
If a cohort gains enough XP to bring it to a level one lower
than the associated character’s level, the cohort does not
gain the new level; its new XP total is one fewer than the
amount needed to attain the next level.
Number of Followers by Level: The character can lead up to
the indicated number of characters of each level. Followers
are similar to cohorts, except they are generally low-level
Non-player Characters. As they are usually five or more
levels behind the character they follow, they are not as
effective in one-on-one combat as the player Characters
but can be a formidable force for waging large-scale war.
Followers do not earn experience and thus do not gain
levels. However, when a character with Leadership
attains a new level, the player consults the table above
to determine if he has acquired more followers,
some of which may be higher level than the
existing followers. He does not consult the
table to see if his cohort gains levels,
however, because cohorts earn
experience on their own.
Light-Footed (General)
You dislike armour and are significantly more effective
without it.
Prerequisites: Hide 1 rank, Move Silently 1 rank, sneak
attack +1d6.
Benefit: Whenever you are unarmoured and carrying at
most 20 pounds of gear in total, you gain an extra +1 die to
your Sneak Attack damage (either d6 or d8 as appropriate),
a +1 dodge bonus to Dodge Defence and a +1 circumstance
bonus to all Hide and Move Silently checks.
Lightning Reflexes
(General)
You can leap aside from danger at a moment’s notice.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Reflex saving throws.
Martial Weapon
proficiency (General)
Choose a type of martial weapon. You understand how to
use that type of martial weapon in combat.
Benefit: You make attack rolls with the selected weapon
normally.
Normal: When using a weapon with which you are not
proficient, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls.
Special: You can gain Martial Weapon Proficiency multiple
times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type
of weapon.
Menacing Aura
(General)
You project a constant, imposing aura of menace that
gives many of your opponents pause before they even get a
chance to attack you.
Prerequisites: Cha 15, Intimidate 16 ranks, Steely Gaze.
Benefit: You may make a demoralise opponent attempt
(see the Intimidate skill on page 107) as a free action against
any opponent who comes within 15 feet of you, whether
or not it is your turn to act. You may do this against any
number of opponents each round.
Mobility (General)
You are better able to defend yourself when on the move.
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge.
Benefit: You get a +4 dodge bonus to your Dodge Defence
against attacks of opportunity caused when you move out
of or within a threatened area. If you cannot dodge, this
bonus has no effect. Dodge bonuses stack, unlike most
types of bonuses.
133
Feats
Monster Slayer
(General)
Through long practice and bitter experience, you have
learned a number of techniques for killing monsters quickly
so as to risk as little damage to yourself as possible.
Prerequisites: Power Attack, base attack bonus +3.
Benefit: When making a Power Attack against a foe
of Large size or greater, you add twice as much to your
damage roll as you subtract from your attack roll, rather
than the same amount as is usual for Power Attack. For
example, you can use your Power Attack to gain a +2 to
damage for a −1 penalty to your attack roll, or a +6 bonus
to damage for a –3 penalty to attack or even a +10 bonus
to damage for a –5 penalty to attack. As ever with Power
Attack, the bonuses and penalties apply to all your attacks
in a round. The total damage bonus gained may not exceed
your base attack bonus.
Special: When using this feat with a two-handed weapon,
or with a one-handed weapon wielded in two hands,
instead add three times the number subtracted from your
attack rolls. The total damage bonus gained still may not
exceed your base attack bonus.
Mounted Archery
(General)
You can use a bow even while guiding your mount with
your knees alone.
Prerequisite: Mounted Combat.
Benefit: The penalty you take when using a ranged weapon
while mounted is halved: –2 instead of –4 if your mount
is taking a double move and –4 instead of –8 if your
mount is running.
Mounted Combat
(General)
Your skill at arms on horseback has been honed and trained
until it is second nature.
Prerequisite: Ride 1 rank.
Benefit: Once per round when your mount is hit in combat,
you may attempt a Ride check (as a reaction) to negate the
hit. The hit is negated if your Ride check result is greater
than the opponent’s attack roll. For the rest of the round the
Ride check result becomes the mount’s Dodge Defence if it
is higher than the mount’s regular Dodge Defence.
Multiattack (General)
Some creatures are particularly adept at using multiple
natural weapons.
Prerequisite: Three or more natural weapons.
Benefit: The creature’s secondary attacks with natural
weapons suffer only a –2 penalty.
Normal: Without this feat, the creature’s secondary natural
attacks suffer a –5 penalty.
Navigation (General)
Along with a small number of brave captains around the
world, you have learned the secrets of deep-sea navigation.
Prerequisites: Int 13. Profession (sailor) 12 ranks.
Benefit: You automatically know where you are at sea, even
in the deep sea out of sight of land. You have a detailed
mental map of all the lands you have already visited and
know how to get there from where you are.
Normal: A character who is out of sight of land and does
not have this feat may attempt a Profession (sailor) check
(DC 20) once per day to stay approximately on course for
his destination. However, if he ever fails a check, he becomes
lost and strays off course; he must make a more difficult
check the following day (DC 25 + 1 per additional day
since a successful check) or remain lost and off-course.
Negotiator (General)
You can haggle with the best of them.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Diplomacy and Sense
Motive checks.
Nimble Fingers
(General)
You have a gift for working with locks and other
mechanisms.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Disable Device and
Open Lock checks.
No Honour
(General)
You have accepted that you have no honour
whatsoever and revel in your wickedness and
dishonour. This acceptance fortifies you in
much the same manner as though you had
a code of honour yourself, except in cases
where your very soul is at stake...
Prerequisites: Must not have a code
of honour, or must have lost a code of
honour.
Benefit: You gain a +3 morale bonus
on all Will saving throws except
those made against Corruption.
Special: You may never gain or
regain a code of honour.
134
Feats
Opportunistic Sacrifice
(Sorcery)
You can take advantage of a chance to slay an opponent by
sorcery or combat and gain magical energy from so doing,
just as though you had ritually sacrificed him in a more
formal manner, by simply dedicating his death to your
dark gods or your own power.
Prerequisites: Ritual Sacrifice, magic attack bonus +3,
base attack bonus +3, base PP 4.
Benefit: You gain the benefits of the Ritual Sacrifice feat
any time you slay an enemy, whether by magic, melee or
ranged attacks.
Normal: You must slay a helpless opponent with a coup de
grace to gain the benefits of the Ritual Sacrifice feat.
Special: This feat may not be used together with Tormented
Sacrifice on the same victim, except in the case of certain
spells as described in Chapter 6: Sorcery. It is simply not
possible for most spells or weapons to cause sufficient pain
to allow the benefits of Tormented Sacrifice to work when
slaying a victim in a quick and businesslike manner, as with
Opportunistic Sacrifice.
You cannot use Opportunistic Sacrifice after slaying a foe
with a Defensive Blast.
Parry (General)
You are experienced and effective at parrying your enemies’
attacks.
Prerequisites: Str 13, base parry bonus +1.
Benefit: You gain a +1 parry bonus to Parry Defence.
Performer (General)
You are a natural performer.
Prerequisite: Cha 13.
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to all Perform checks.
Persuasive (General)
You are very hard to turn down when you set your
mind on something.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Bluff and
Intimidate checks.
Pirate Code Expert
(General)
You have travelled the world on many different pirate
vessels, shipping with the Red Brotherhood of the Vilayet
Sea, the Corsairs of the Black Coast, the Freebooters of
Zingara and the Pirates of the Baracha Islands. You have
learned the codes for all these different groups, enabling
you to easily communicate with any pirate ship.
Prerequisites: Int 13, pirate level 2.
Benefit: You know all four of the pirate codes listed
under the Pirate Code class feature (see page 59).
Furthermore, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to all
Charisma-based skill checks and Charisma checks when
dealing with any character who has at least two levels in
the pirate character class.
Point Blank Shot
(General)
At close range, your skill with a ranged weapon is deadly.
Benefit: You get a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls
with ranged weapons at ranges of up to 30 feet.
Poison Use (General)
You are an experienced poison-user.
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Knowledge (nature) 4 ranks, base
attack bonus +6.
Benefit: You never suffer the usual 5% chance of poisoning
yourself if you use poison, nor do you risk accidentally
poisoning yourself when attacking with a poisoned
weapon. Furthermore, you gain a +1 resistance bonus
to all Fortitude saves against poison, as your frequent
exposure to low doses of a variety of poisons has given
your body a certain degree of habituation to poisons of
all kinds. Finally, you can take poisons directly from such
sources as the glands of a dead Ghost Snake (see page
373) or the juice of an Apple of Derketa (see page 275)
without needing to make any particular skill checks. Note
that this feat does not help with finding such poison
sources, only extracting them.
Power Attack
(General)
You can pour your strength into your blows to wreak
devastation upon your enemies.
Prerequisite: Str 13.
Benefit: On your action, before making attack rolls for a
round, you may choose to subtract a number from all melee
attack rolls and add the same number to all melee damage
135
Feats
rolls. This number may not exceed your base attack bonus.
The penalty on attacks and bonus on damage both apply
until your next turn.
Special: If you attack with a two-handed weapon, or with a
one-handed weapon wielded in two hands, you instead add
twice the number subtracted from your attack rolls. You
cannot add the bonus from Power Attack to the damage
dealt with a light weapon (except for unarmed strikes or
natural weapon attacks), though the penalty on attack rolls
still applies.
Precise Shot (General)
Your friends need not fear your missiles when you shoot
past them.
Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot.
Benefit: You can shoot or throw ranged weapons at an
opponent engaged in melee without taking the standard
–4 penalty on your attack roll.
Priest (General)
You have taken full ordination into the temple of your
chosen religion.
Prerequisites: Scholar level 4, scholar background: lay
priest. Most religions have additional requirements that
must be met before a priest can be ordained; see Chapter
12 for details.
Benefit: You are an ordained priest. This brings a number
of social and political benefits, as well as some restrictions.
Many of these benefits and restrictions are dependent on
your religion. See Chapter 12: Religion in the Hyborian
Age. These benefits always include the right to command
followers of the same religion, allowing priests to gain
bonuses to their Leadership scores (see page 131).
Furthermore, the priest gains a +1 circumstance bonus
to Bluff, Diplomacy, Gather Information and Intimidate
checks when dealing with other characters who follow the
same religious path as he does. In some regions, this can
mean entire nations. This bonus is cumulative with the
similar bonus from having the same Allegiance as the target,
if applicable. Finally, the priest has certain duties at temple
that fully occupy him for at least six months of every year;
it is his choice as to when he fulfils these duties. In return
for fulfilling his duties, the priest gains an annual stipend
of 10 sp/scholar level, as well as free room and board at a
temple of his religion whenever he is working there.
Quick Draw (General)
Just because your weapon is sheathed, it does not mean
you are defenceless.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: You can draw a weapon as a free action instead of
as a move action. So long as you are able to parry an attack
(when you are not flat-footed, for example) you can draw a
weapon in response to being attacked, enabling you to use
your full Parry Defence against the attack even if you did
not have a weapon drawn before. You can draw a hidden
weapon (see the Sleight of Hand skill) as a move action. A
character who has selected this feat may throw weapons at
his full normal rate of attack, much like a character with
a bow.
Normal: Without this feat, you may draw a weapon as a
move action or, if your base attack bonus is +1 or higher, as
a free action as part of movement. Without this feat, you
can draw a hidden weapon as a standard action.
Ranged Finesse
(General)
Given sufficient time to aim, your ranged
attacks find their way between gaps in your
foes’ armour.
Prerequisite: Precise Shot.
Benefit: You may take a move action to line
up an attack with a ranged weapon. You
must aim at a specific target. The act of
aiming provokes an attack of opportunity,
just as if you had attacked with the
weapon. If, on your next turn, that
target is within 30 feet and has not
moved more than 30 feet since
his last action, you may attempt
to finesse past his armour
For answer the Count made a quick gesture with
his hand below the points of the palisade. Almost
instantly a shaft hummed venomously through a
loop-hole and splintered on Strom’s breastplate.
The pirate yelled ferociously, bounded back and ran
toward the beach, with arrows whistling all about
him. His men roared and came on like a wave, blades
gleaming in the sun.
‘Curse you, dog!’ raved the Count, felling the
offending archer with his iron-clad fist. ‘Why did you
not strike his throat above the gorget? Ready with
your bows, men – here they come!’
– The Black Stranger
136
Feats
with your ranged attack. You can also ready an attack while
aiming but you must have been aiming at the same target
continuously for at least one round in order to attempt to
finesse. If you lose sight of your target or attack a different
target, your aim is broken. Aiming requires your full
concentration and you must make a Concentration skill
check if you suffer distraction (see page 95). If you are able
to make more than one attack in a round, only your first
attack benefits from any aiming and subsequent attacks
may not be made as finesse attempts. If you are using a
bow, you can continue to aim for a number of rounds
equal to 5 + your Strength modifier, after which you take
one point of nonlethal damage for every round during
which you continue to aim.
Normal: Ranged attacks cannot ordinarily be finessed.
Rapid Shot (General)
You can have another arrow in the air before the first has
hit its target.
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Point Blank Shot.
Benefit: You can get one extra attack per round with a
ranged weapon. The attack is at your highest base attack
bonus but each attack you make in that round (the extra
one and the normal ones) takes a –2 penalty. You must use
the full attack action to use this feat.
Reflexive Parry
(General)
Though you may not have time to dodge a surprise attack,
you will at least have a chance to bring up your weapon or
shield in a desperate, instinctive parry.
Prerequisites: Dex 15, Combat Reflexes, Parry, base parry
bonus +8.
Benefit: You can still parry if caught flat-footed or struck
by an invisible attacker. You are not able to parry when
grappled or helpless, however.
Ride-By Attack
(General)
You can slash at an opponent as you spur your
mount past.
Prerequisite: Mounted Combat.
Benefit: When you are mounted and
use the charge action, you may
move and attack as if with
a standard charge and then
move again, continuing
the straight line of
the charge.
Your total movement for the round cannot exceed double
your mounted speed. You and your mount do not provoke
an attack of opportunity from the opponent you attack.
Ritual Sacrifice
(Sorcery)
You have been trained to ritually kill a helpless opponent to
gain sorcerous power.
Prerequisites: Magic attack bonus +1, base attack bonus
+1, base PP 4.
Benefit: If you attempt a coup de grace on a helpless
character or creature (see page 198), the victim gets a –2
circumstance penalty on his Fortitude saving throw to
avoid dying. In addition, you may move one step down
on the Sacrifice Table when calculating the number of PP
gained. See page 228 for the Sacrifice Table.
Normal: If you kill a creature by coup de grace but do not
know this feat, you may still gain some power points by
dedicating its death to your gods or to your own personal
power. See page 228.
Run (General)
Your pace is phenomenal.
Benefit: When running, you move at five times your
normal speed. You may only do this if wearing light or no
armour and carrying no more than a light load. You may
move at four times your speed if wearing medium or heavy
armour or carrying a medium or heavy load. If you make a
jump after a running start (see the Jump skill description)
you gain a +4 bonus on your Jump check. You can dodge
while running.
Normal: You move at four times your speed while running
(if wearing light or no armour and carrying no more than a
light load) or at three times your speed (if wearing medium
or heavy armour or carrying a medium or heavy load) and
you are not able to dodge.
Self-Sufficient
(General)
You can survive in the wild with little fear.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Heal and Survival
checks.
Shield Proficiency
(General)
You are adept at using a shield to parry blows.
Benefit: You can use a shield and take only the standard
penalties.
137
Feats
Normal: When you are using a shield with which you are
not proficient, you take the shield’s armour check penalty
on attack rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving,
including Ride checks.
Shot On The Run
(General)
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, Point Blank Shot,
base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: When using the attack action with a ranged
weapon, you can move both before and after the attack,
provided that the total distance moved is not greater
than your speed.
Normal: When using the attack action you must make
your attack before or after you move.
Simple Weapon
Proficiency (General)
You are competent at wielding less demanding weapons.
Benefit: You make attack rolls with simple weapons
normally.
Normal: When using a weapon with which you are not
proficient, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls.
Skill Focus (General)
You have a particular knack for one task or another.
Benefit: You get a +3 bonus on all checks involving that
skill.
Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies
to a new skill.
Sleep Mastery
(General)
You have almost total control of your body’s sleep patterns
and your waking and sleeping habits.
Prerequisites: Con 13, Wis 13.
Benefit: You need only sleep for six hours a night to
awaken fully rested. Up to once per week, you may spend
one full night without any sleep, with no penalties, so long
as you get at least twelve hours of sleep the following night.
In addition, you may make Listen checks as though you
were awake if any untoward sounds occur as you sleep;
if you succeed at such a Listen check, you may become
fully awake as a free action. Finally, you gain a +2 bonus
on all saving throws against spells, supernatural effects,
drugs and poisons that would cause you to sleep or
prevent you from waking.
Sneak Subdual (General)
You can make sneak attacks that subdue your enemies.
Prerequisites: Sneak attack +1d6, base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: You can use a weapon that deals normal damage
to deal nonlethal damage in a sneak attack, with the usual
–4 penalty. Alternatively, when sneak attacking with any
bludgeoning weapon, you can elect to deal half normal
damage and half nonlethal damage (round down) with no
penalty.
Normal: Sneak attacks can only deal nonlethal damage if
made with an unarmed strike or sap.
Sorcerer’s Boon
(Sorcery)
You have spent many years studying sorcery.
Prerequisites: Int 13, scholar level 4, must know at least
two sorcery styles.
Benefit: You gain one advanced spell of your choice. You
must meet any prerequisites of the spell as usual, including
knowledge of the sorcery style in question. However,
unlike the usual spells you gain as class features, you are
not restricted by your background class feature – you may
choose any spell for which you meet the prerequisites
without needing to learn it from your masters.
Special: This feat may be taken more than once – you gain
a different spell each time.
Spawn of Dagoth Hill
(General)
You are only half human, one of your parents having
been a demonic pre-human creature.
Prerequisites: Must be Kothian or Zamorian, may
only be taken at 1st level.
Benefit: You apply the Spawn of Dagoth Hill template
to your character (see page 388).
Spirited Charge
(General)
You can spur your mount into the charge and
brace yourself to strike a powerful blow.
Prerequisites: Ride-By Attack.
Benefit: When mounted and using the
charge action, you deal double damage
with a melee weapon or triple damage
with a lance.
138
Feats
Stealthy (General)
You have a knack for moving sneakily.
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Hide and Move Silently
checks.
Steely Gaze (General)
One glance from you is enough to make lesser opponents
quail in terror.
Prerequisites: Cha 13, Intimidate 8 ranks.
Benefit: You may perform the demoralise opponent action
(see page 107) as a free action once per round.
Striking Cobra
(General)
You can make surprise attacks even when your
opponents are aware of your presence, using your
body language to convince them you are no threat,
then attacking with the speed and suddenness of
a striking cobra.
Prerequisites: Dex 15, Cha 13,
Bluff 6 ranks, base attack
bonus +6.
Benefit: So long as
combat has not yet
begun, you
may attempt a Bluff check opposed by your opponents’
Sense Motive checks. If you succeed, they are surprised and
you may make a full round of actions in the surprise round
when combat begins. An opponent who had readied an
action will lose that action if he does not beat your Bluff
check with his Sense Motive check. Opponents who do
beat your Bluff check gain a standard action in the surprise
round as usual.
Stunning Attack
(General)
Your punches (and similar attacks) are so accurate and
powerful that you can stun your enemies.
Prerequisites: Str 13, Dex 13, base attack bonus +8.
Benefit: You may use this feat with any of the following
weapons: unarmed strike, buckler, gauntlet or pommel.
You must declare that you are using the feat before making
an attack roll; a missed attack roll ruins the attempt. It
forces a foe damaged by your attack to make a Fortitude
saving throw (DC 10 + ½ your level + your Str modifier),
in addition to dealing damage normally. If the defender
fails his saving throw, he is stunned for one round, until
just before your next action. A stunned character may not
act and can neither dodge nor parry. Attackers get a +2
bonus on attack rolls against a stunned opponent. You may
attempt a stunning attack once per day for every four levels
you have attained. You may not attempt a stunning attack
more than once per round.
Summoner (Sorcery)
You are particularly adept at summoning demons and
elementals.
Prerequisites: Magic attack bonus +1, Sorcery Style:
Summoning.
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to your magic attack
roll whenever you cast a spell from the Summoning
sorcery style.
Superior Armourer
(General)
You have been trained in producing Aquilonian style plate
armour, Kothic scale or Hyrkanian mail.
Prerequisites: Must be an Aquilonian, Kothian, Hyrkanian/
Turanian or Zingaran, Craft (armourer) 12 ranks.
Benefit: You may create superior quality armour, though
this takes significantly longer than usual due to its very
high cost. If you are an Aquilonian, you may only create
superior visored helms, breastplates and plate armour; if
you are a Hyrkanian or Turanian, you may only create
superior steel caps, mail hauberks and mail
139
Feats
shirts; if you are a Kothian, you may only create superior
scale corselets, scale hauberks and great helms; if you are
a Zingaran, you may only create superior quality leather
jerkins. Creating a suit of superior quality armour follows
the usual rules for the Craft skill (see page 96).
Toughness (General)
You can shrug off blows that would cripple or kill a
normal man.
Benefit: You gain bonus hit points equal to +1 per character
level or Hit Die, up to a maximum of +10.
Special: Each time your character level increases, if your new
level is 10th or below you gain another +1 bonus Hit Point.
Tortured Sacrifice
(Sorcery)
You may draw a huge quantity of magical power from
a creature by painstakingly sacrificing it over a period
of several hours. You may bleed it to death, whip it or
otherwise inflict great torture on it. Different sorcerers may
have preferred methods of performing a sacrifice. In every
case, though, the point is to maximize the magical power
you gain from a single ritual sacrifice.
Prerequisites: Ritual Sacrifice, magic attack bonus +2,
base attack bonus +2.
Benefit: If you take at least 15 minutes to torture a victim
to death in a ritualistic manner you can move two steps
down on the Sacrifice Table (see page 228). If you are able
to spin the process out for an hour or more, you can move
three steps down on the Sacrifice Table. The victim must
be bound or otherwise helpless during the sacrifice. If for
some reason you need to know how much damage you
have inflicted on your victim part way through the process
(for example, if the victim is rescued before you finish him
off ), assume that you inflicted at least a minimum of 1d3
hit points damage per five minutes. If you prefer, you could
inflict as much as your standard melee attack damage every
round if desired (this latter damage assumes that you either
have a particularly tough opponent or that you choose to
kill him quickly because he is about to be rescued). You
may also choose any amount of damage in between. If you
kill your victim before the 15 minutes is up, you only gain
the normal Power Points for a Ritual Sacrifice.
Track (General)
You can track beast or man across the land.
Benefit: To find tracks or to follow them for one mile
requires a successful Survival check. You must make
another Survival check every time the tracks
become difficult to follow. While tracking, you
either move at half your normal speed, at your normal
speed with a –5 penalty on the check or at up to twice your
normal speed with a –20 penalty on the check. The DC
depends on the surface and the prevailing conditions, as
given in the table below:
Track Modifiers
Condition
Survival DC
Modifier
Every three creatures in the group
being tracked
–1
Size of creature or creatures
being tracked:1
Fine +8
Diminutive +4
Tiny +2
Small +1
Medium +0
Large –1
Huge –2
Gargantuan –4
Colossal –8
Every 24 hours since the trail was made +1
Every hour of rain since the trail was made +1
Fresh snow cover since the trail was made +10
Poor visibility:2
Overcast or moonless night +6
Moonlight +3
Fog or precipitation +3
Tracked party hides trail (and moves
at half speed)
+5
1 For a group of mixed sizes, apply
only the modifier for the largest
size category.
2 Apply only the largest modifier
from this category.
In what had seemed a curtain of solid marble,
a thin perpendicular crack showed and in the crack
hung a wisp of silk. In an instant he was bending
over it. That shred was from Muriela’s torn skirt.
The implication was unmistakable. It had been caught
in the closing door and torn off as she was borne
through the opening by whatever grim beings were her
captors. The bit of clothing had prevented the door
from fitting perfectly into its frame.
– Jewels of Gwahlur
140
Feats
Surface Survival DC
Very soft ground 5
Soft ground 10
Firm ground 15
Hard ground 20
Very Soft Ground: Any surface, such as fresh snow, thick
dust or wet mud which holds deep, clear impressions of
footprints.
Soft Ground: Any surface soft enough to yield to pressure,
but firmer than wet mud or fresh snow, in which a creature
leaves frequent but shallow footprints.
Firm Ground: Most normal outdoor surfaces, such as lawns,
fields, woods and the like, or exceptionally soft or dirty
indoor surfaces, such as thick rugs and very dirty or dusty
floors. A creature might leave some traces of its passing,
such as broken branches or tufts of hair but it leaves only
occasional or partial footprints.
Hard Ground: Any surface that does not hold footprints at
all, such as bare rock or an indoor floor. Most streambeds
fall into this category, since any footprints left behind are
obscured or washed away. A creature leaves only traces of
its passing, such as scuffmarks or displaced pebbles.
If you fail a Survival check, you can retry after one hour
(outdoors) or 10 minutes (indoors) of searching.
Normal: Without this feat, you can use the Survival skill
to find tracks but you can follow them only if the DC for
the task is 10 or lower. Alternatively, you can use the Search
skill to find a footprint or similar sign of a creature’s passage
using the DCs given above. You cannot use Search to follow
tracks, even if someone else has already found them.
Trample (General)
You can urge your horse to lash out with its hooves as it
rides over an opponent.
Prerequisite: Mounted Combat.
Benefit: When you attempt to overrun an opponent
while mounted, your target may not choose to
avoid you. Your mount may make one
hoof attack against any target
you knock down, gaining
the standard +4 bonus
on attack rolls against
prone targets.
Two-Weapon Combat
(General)
You can fight effectively with a weapon in each hand.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: When you fight with two weapons, you take no
penalty to your attack rolls so long as at least one of the
weapons is a light weapon. You take only a –4 penalty to
all attack rolls if both weapons are one-handed.
Normal: A character who is not proficient in two-weapon
combat has a –2 penalty to attack rolls if using a light
or one-handed weapon in his primary hand and a light
weapon in his secondary hand, or –6 if using a one-handed
weapon in each hand.
Two-Weapon Defence
(General)
When wielding a weapon in each hand, you are an expert
at defensive parrying.
Prerequisites: Parry, Two-Weapon Combat.
Benefit: When you fight with two weapons, you can give
up one attack at your highest attack bonus with one of
the weapons to gain a parry bonus to Parry Defence for
one full round after you would have made the attack. This
parry bonus is +2 if the weapon is light, or +3 if the weapon
is one-handed.
Special: Two-Weapon Defence can also apply to shields
if you use a shield to make shield bash attacks rather than
for parrying.
Weapon Focus (General)
Choose one type of weapon that you are proficient with. If
desired, this weapon could be ‘unarmed strike’ or ‘grapple.’
You are highly skilled with this weapon.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: You add +1 to all attack rolls you make using the
selected weapon.
Special: This feat can be gained multiple times. The effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new
weapon. A character who has seven or more levels of the
barbarian class may not select this feat. If a character with
this feat ever gains seven or more levels in the barbarian
class, he immediately and permanently loses this feat.
Web of Death (General)
You can spin your blade and endanger any opponents who
dare attack you.
Prerequisites: Combat Reflexes, Weapon Focus, base
attack bonus +5.
141
Feats
Benefit: When taking a total defence action, you spin
your weapon so skilfully that you can make an attack of
opportunity against anyone who attacks you. The normal
rules for attacks of opportunity apply. This attack is
resolved after your opponent’s.
Special: A character that has seven or more levels of the
barbarian class may not select this feat. If a character with
this feat ever gains seven or more levels in the barbarian
class, he immediately and permanently loses this feat.
Weapon Specialisation
(General)
Choose one type of weapon that you already have Weapon
Focus with. If desired, this weapon could be ‘unarmed
strike’ or ‘grapple.’ You are especially good at inflicting
damage with this weapon.
Prerequisites: Weapon Focus, soldier level 4.
Benefit: You add +2 to all damage dealt with the weapon
you have specialised with.
Special: This feat can be gained multiple times. The effects
do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new
weapon. A character who has seven or more levels of the
barbarian class may not select this feat. If a character with
this feat ever gains seven or more levels in the barbarian
class, he immediately and permanently loses this feat.
Whirlwind Attack
(General)
You lash out at any available target, dispatching foes all
around you with terrifying speed.
Prerequisites: Dodge, Mobility, Combat Expertise, base
attack bonus +4.
Benefit: When you use the full attack action, you can give
up your regular attacks and instead make one melee attack
at your full base attack bonus against each opponent within
your threatened area. When you use the Whirlwind Attack
feat, you forfeit any bonuses or extra attacks
granted by other feats, spells or abilities.
Zingaran Surprise
(General)
Though the Zingarans are famed for swordplay, they
are perhaps still more famed for their willingness to take
advantage of any momentary distraction on the part
of an ally to give him a blow to the head from behind,
rob him and leave him for dead. Even Zingarans who
are not primarily thieves or pirates are often expert with
the sneak attack.
Prerequisites: Must be Zingaran, sneak attack +3d6, base
attack bonus +4.
Benefit: For purposes of determining whether or not
you are able to sneak attack an opponent who has the
Improved Uncanny Dodge class feature, you may use
your character level, rather than your thief or pirate
class level. Furthermore, if your opponent is distracted
at the time of your sneak attack, you may use double
your character level, rather than your pirate or
thief class level, for this purpose. You could
potentially contrive to create a suitable
distraction with a Bluff versus Sense Motive
check or you could take advantage of a
distraction such as a suddenly revealed treasure
or bizarre happenstance.
Normal: Usually you may only sneak attack
a character who has Improved Uncanny
Dodge if you have four more levels as a
thief or pirate than that character has levels
in the class or classes that granted him
Improved Uncanny Dodge.