Combat Modifiers
Basic combat is covered by the rules above but there are
numerous instances and conditions that can complicate
a battle. Tactically minded players can use these to their
advantage, while those with the skills or abilities to do
so may impose them against their foes. In any case,
these factors can combine to make nearly impossible
battles merely difficult and to make invulnerable enemies
vulnerable to a strategically planned assault. The true art
of combat exists in understanding and taking advantage of
these modifiers.
Cover
Cover makes a target harder to hit by introducing an
obstacle between an attack and its destination.
Cover Against
Ranged Attacks
To determine whether a target has cover from a ranged
attack, choose a corner of the attacker’s square. If any line
from this corner to any corner of the target’s square passes
through a square or border that blocks the line or provides
cover, or passes through a square occupied by a creature,
the target has cover and gains a +4 cover bonus to his
Defence against the attack.
Cover Against
Melee Attacks
When making a melee attack against an adjacent target,
the target has cover if any line from the attacker’s square
to the target’s square goes through a wall, including a low
wall. When making a melee attack against a target that is
not adjacent to the attacker, such as with a reach weapon,
use the rules for determining cover from ranged attacks.
Again, cover grants a +4 cover bonus to Defence.
Low Obstacles and Cover
A low obstacle, such as a wall no higher than half the
attacker’s height, provides cover but only to creatures
within 30 feet (six squares) of it. The attacker can ignore
the cover if he is closer to the obstacle than his target is.
Cover and Attacks
of Opportunity
A character cannot execute an attack of opportunity against
an opponent that has cover.
Cover and Reflex
Saving Throws
Cover grants a +2 cover bonus on Reflex saving throws
against attacks that originate or burst out from a point on
the other side of the cover. Note that a spread effect can
extend around corners and thus negate this cover bonus.
Cover from
ranged attacks
cover in
melee
This pict has cover from
the wall (+4 Defence).
This pict has cover from Conan (+4
Defence) and Valeria is shooting
into melee (–4 on her attack roll).
This pict has cover
from Valeria’s attacks
(and vice versa).
This pict, however, does not
interfere with attacks between
Conan and his compatriot.
197
Combat
Cover and Hide Checks
A character can use cover to make a Hide check. Without
cover, he usually needs concealment (see below) to make a
Hide check.
Soft Cover
Creatures, even one’s enemies, can provide one with cover
against ranged attacks, granting a +4 bonus to Defence.
However, such soft cover provides no bonus on Reflex
saving throws, nor does soft cover allow one to make a
Hide check.
Big Creatures and Cover
Any creature that takes up a space larger than five feet
(one square) determines cover against melee attacks
slightly differently than smaller creatures. Such a creature
can choose any square that it occupies to determine if an
opponent has cover against its melee attacks. Similarly,
when making a melee attack against such a creature, the
attacker can pick any of the squares it occupies to determine
whether it has cover.
Total Cover
If a player cannot draw a straight line between his square
and any part of his target, the target is considered to have
total cover. Attacks cannot be made against a target that
has total cover.
Varying Degrees of Cover
In some cases, cover may provide a greater bonus to
Defence and Reflex saving throws. In such situations
the normal cover bonuses to Defence and Reflex saving
throws are doubled, to +8 and +4, respectively. A creature
with this improved cover takes no damage at all if he
successfully saves against any attack to which the Reflex
saving throw bonus applies. Even if he fails, he takes only
half damage. Furthermore, improved cover provides a +10
bonus on Hide checks.
Concealment
To determine whether a target has concealment from a
ranged attack, choose a corner of the attacker’s square.
If the line from this corner to any corner of the target’s
square passes through a square or border that provides
concealment, the target has concealment.
When making a melee attack against an adjacent
target, the target has concealment if his space
is entirely within an effect that grants
concealment. When a character makes a melee attack
against a target that is not adjacent to him, use the rules for
determining concealment from ranged attacks. In addition,
some magical effects provide concealment against all attacks,
regardless of whether any intervening concealment exists.
Concealment Miss Chance
Concealment gives the object of a successful attack a 20%
chance that the attacker missed because of the concealment.
If the attack hits, the defender must make a miss chance
percentile roll to avoid being struck. Multiple concealment
conditions do not stack.
Concealment and Hiding
In the absence of cover a character can use concealment to
make a Hide check.
Total Concealment
If a character does not have line of sight to a target that he
could otherwise attack, the target is considered to have total
concealment. A character cannot attack an opponent that has
total concealment, though he can attack into a specific square
if his adversary is suspected to be there. A successful attack into
a square occupied by an enemy with total concealment has a
50% miss chance instead of the normal 20% miss chance for
an opponent with concealment. A character cannot execute
an attack of opportunity against an opponent who has total
concealment, even if the attacker knows what square or
squares the opponent occupies.
Ignoring Concealment
Concealment is not always effective. Although
invisibility provides total concealment, sighted
opponents may still make Spot checks to notice
the location of an invisible character. An
invisible character who is moving gains a +20
bonus on Hide checks; he gains a +40 bonus on
Hide checks when he is stationary. Even though
opponents cannot see a character, they might
be able to figure out where he is from other
visual clues.
Varying Degrees of
Concealment
Certain situations may provide
more or less than the typical level
of concealment and modify the
miss chance accordingly.
198
Combat
Flanking
When making a melee attack, a character gets a +2 flanking
bonus to the attack roll if his opponent is threatened by
a character or creature friendly to the attacker on the
opponent’s opposite border or opposite corner. When
in doubt about whether two friendly characters flank an
opponent, trace an imaginary line between the two friendly
characters’ centres. If the line passes through opposite
borders of the opponent’s space, including corners of those
borders, then the opponent is flanked. Being flanked does
not render a character unable to dodge or parry, but it does
render the victim susceptible to sneak attacks.
* Exception: If a flanker takes up more than one square,
it gets the flanking bonus if any square it occupies
counts for flanking. Only a creature or character that
threatens the defender can help an attacker get a flanking
bonus. Creatures with a reach of zero feet cannot
flank an opponent.
Helpless Defenders
A helpless opponent is someone who is bound, sleeping,
paralysed, unconscious, or otherwise at your mercy.
Regular Attack
A helpless character can neither dodge
nor parry. A thief or pirate can
therefore sneak attack him.
He has an effective Dexterity
of zero, for a –5 penalty to
Defence. He suffers
an additional –4 penalty to his Defence against melee
attacks but no additional penalty against ranged attacks.
Coup de Grace
As a full-round action, a character can use a melee weapon
to deliver a coup de grace to a helpless opponent. He can
also use a bow or crossbow, provided he is adjacent to the
target. He automatically hits and scores a critical hit. If the
defender survives the damage, he must make a Fortitude
saving throw (DC 10 + damage dealt) or die. Thieves and
pirates also get their extra sneak attack damage against a
helpless opponent when delivering a coup de grace.
Delivering a coup de grace provokes attacks of opportunity
from threatening opponents. One cannot deliver a coup
de grace against a creature that is immune to critical hits.
One can deliver a coup de grace against a creature with
total concealment but doing this requires two consecutive
full-round actions: one to ‘find’ the creature once the
attacker has determined what square it is in and one to
deliver the coup de grace.
Flanking illustrated
Here, picts A and E
give each other flflanking
bonuses. Pict D gets no
bonus because he has no
ally on the opposite side
of Conan. Pict B also
gets no bonus because
pict C is stunned and
so does not threaten
Conan’s space.
Sneak Attack
Only characters with levels in certain classes,
such as temptress, thief or pirate, or from
certain races, such as Zingaran, can make
sneak attacks. A sneak attack can only be made
against a character who is unable to use Dodge
Defence or Parry Defence to defend himself,
or who is being flanked. A character who is
blinded, flat-footed, stunned, helpless, the
victim of a successful feint or pinned can thus
be sneak attacked. A sneak attack only deals its
extra damage if the attack either bypasses the
target’s armour or pierces the armour without
adding extra damage.
If a character is able to defend himself with
either Dodge Defence or Parry Defence (such as
a character with the Reflexive Parry feat who is
attacked when flat-footed), he is not susceptible
to a sneak attack unless the sneak attack is of
a kind that the chosen defence cannot help
against. For example, a flat-footed character
with Reflexive Parry could still be sneak attacked
by a character using a ranged weapon, because
ranged attacks cannot be parried.
199
Combat
Special Combat
Situations
Grapple
All forms of offensive holding, including the ancient art of
wrestling, are considered actions of the grapple type. These
actions can bind up a dangerous opponent or subdue
someone when normal combat methods are ineffective.
Grapple Checks
One needs to make grapple checks repeatedly during a
grapple. These are like melee attack rolls and are made
against an opponent’s Grapple Defence.
A character’s Grapple Attack Bonus when making a grapple
check is:
BASE ATTACK BONUS +
STRENGTH MODIFIER +
SPECIAL SIZE MODIFIER +
OTHER MODIFIERS
A character’s Grapple Defence is calculated as follows:
10 + BASE ATTACK BONUS +
STRENGTH MODIFIER +
SPECIAL SIZE MODIFIER +
OTHER MODIFIERS
Special Size Modifier: The special size modifier for a
grapple check is as follows: Colossal +16, Gargantuan
+12, Huge +8, Large +4, Medium +0, Small –4, Tiny –8,
Diminutive –12, Fine –16. Use these numbers in place of
a character’s normal size modifier when making an attack
roll or calculating Defence.
Grapple checks may be turned into opposed grapple rolls
simply by basing Grapple Defence on a roll of 1d20 rather
than a flat value of 10.
Starting a Grapple
To start a grapple, a character must grab and hold his target.
Starting a grapple requires a successful melee touch attack
roll. If a character has multiple attacks, he can attempt to
start a grapple multiple times at successively lower base
attack bonuses.
* Step 1: Attack of Opportunity. A character provokes
an attack of opportunity from the target he is trying
to grapple. If the attack of opportunity deals damage,
the grapple attempt fails. (Certain monsters, such as
the sons of Set, do not provoke attacks of opportunity
when they attempt to grapple, nor do characters with
the Improved Grapple feat.) If the attack of opportunity
misses or fails to deal damage, proceed to Step 2.
* Step 2: Grapple. The character makes a grapple check
against his opponent’s Grapple Defence or Dodge
Defence (opponent’s choice). If the grapple check
succeeds, the character and his target are now grappling.
If it fails, the attacker fails to start the grapple. He
automatically loses this contest if the target is two or
more size categories larger than he is.
* Step 3: Maintain Grapple. To maintain the grapple
for later rounds, the attacker must move into the
target’s space. This movement is free and does not
count as part of the character’s movement in the
round. Moving, as normal, provokes attacks of
opportunity from threatening opponents but not
from the target. If the attacker cannot move into his
target’s space, he cannot maintain the grapple and must
immediately let go of the target. To grapple again, he
must begin at Step 1.
Grappling Consequences
While a character is grappling, his ability to attack
others and defend himself is limited. He is using most
of his concentration and every available limb to try
and impede his opponent’s movements, making it
very difficult to spare any attention or effort against
any other foe. A grappling character can only defend
himself against melee or ranged attacks with
Dodge Defence. It is impossible to use Parry
Defence while grappling.
No Threatened Squares: A character does
not threaten any squares while grappling.
No Dodge: A character is unable to dodge
opponents that he is not grappling. He can
still dodge opponents that he is grappling.
No Parry: A character cannot parry
attacks while grappling, unless
he performs the Human Shield
combat move (see page 208).
200
Combat
No Movement: A character cannot move normally while
grappling. He may, however, make a grapple check against
his opponent’s Grapple Defence (see the rules for doing so
below) to move while grappling.
If a Character is Grappling
When a character is grappling, regardless of who started the
grapple, he can perform any of the actions listed below.
* Attack an Opponent: A character can make an attack
with an unarmed strike, natural weapon or light
weapon against another character that he is grappling.
He takes a –4 penalty on such attacks. (This type of
attack is made with a normal melee attack roll, not a
grapple check.) He cannot attack with two weapons
while grappling, even if both are light weapons.
This is a standard action.
* Cast a Spell: A character can attempt to cast a spell while
grappling or even while pinned (see below), provided
the spell’s casting time is no more than one standard
action, it has no somatic component and the caster
has in hand any material components or foci he might
need. No spell that requires precise and careful action
may be cast by a character who is grappling or being
pinned. If the spell is one that a character can cast while
grappling, he must make a Concentration check (DC
20 + PP cost) or fail to cast the spell and lose the PP
spent. He does not have to make a successful grapple
check to cast the spell.
* Damage an Opponent: While grappling, a character
can deal damage to his opponent equivalent to an
unarmed strike. The character should make a grapple
check against his opponent’s Grapple Defence in place
of an attack. If the attacker wins, he deals nonlethal
damage as normal for his unarmed strike: 1d3 points
for Medium-size attackers, plus Strength modifiers.
This damage ignores any DR from armour but takes
account of DR derived from other sources, such as the
class features of a barbarian. If the attacker wants to
deal lethal damage, he takes a –4 penalty on his grapple
check. This is a full-round action, and characters
with suitably high base attack bonuses may make
multiple grapple attacks in this manner.
* Draw a Light Weapon: A grappling character can draw a
light weapon as a move action with a successful grapple
check against his opponent’s Grapple Defence.
* Escape from Grapple: A grappling character can escape
a grapple by making a successful grapple check against
his opponent’s Grapple Defence in place of making an
attack. He can choose to make an Escape Artist check
in place of his grapple check but this requires a standard
action. If more than one opponent is grappling a
character, his grapple check result has to beat all their
individual Grapple Defence values for him to escape.
(Opponents do not have to try to hold the character
if they do not want to.) If the character escapes, he
finishes the action by moving into any space adjacent
to his opponent(s). This is a full-round action.
* Move: A grappling character can move half his speed
(bringing all others engaged in the grapple with
him) by making a successful grapple check against
his opponent’s Grapple Defence. This requires a
standard action and the character must beat all the
other individual Grapple Defence values to move the
grapple. Note: The character gets a +4 bonus on his
grapple check to move a pinned opponent but only if
no one else is involved in the grapple.
* Retrieve a Spell Component: A grappling character can
produce a spell component from his pouch by using
a full-round action. Doing so does not require a
successful grapple check.
* Pin an Opponent: A grappling character can hold
his opponent immobile for one round by making a
successful grapple check against his Grapple Defence
in place of an attack. Once his opponent is pinned, the
character has a few additional options available to him;
see below. This is a full-round action, and characters
with suitably high base attack bonuses may make
multiple grapple attacks in this manner.
* Break Another’s Pin: If a character is grappling an
opponent who has another character pinned, he can
make a grapple check against that opponent’s Grapple
Defence in place of an attack. If the character who
makes the grapple check wins, he breaks the hold the
opponent has over the other character. The character
is still grappling, but is no longer pinned. This is a
full-round action, and characters with suitably high
base attack bonuses may make multiple grapple
checks in this manner.
201
Combat
* Use Opponent’s Weapon: A character can use his
opponent’s light weapon to attack him. The character
makes a grapple check against his opponent’s Grapple
Defence in place of an attack. If he wins, he makes an
attack roll with the weapon with a –4 penalty. This is a
standard action. The character does not gain possession
of the weapon by performing this action.
If you are Pinning
your Opponent
A character who is pinning an opponent can attempt can
attempt any of the actions described above. The character
may also prevent a pinned opponent from speaking if they
wish. This is not an action.
A character can use a disarm action to try to remove or
grab a well-secured object from a pinned opponent but the
opponent gets a +4 bonus on his roll to resist the character’s
attempt; see Disarm on page 206.
A character may voluntarily release a pinned character as a
free action. If this occurs, the two are no longer considered
to be grappling and one character – the releasing character’s
choice – must be moved to an adjacent 5 foot square.
A character cannot draw or use a weapon (against the
pinned character or any other character), escape another’s
grapple, retrieve a spell component, pin another character
or break another’s pin while pinning an opponent.
If you are Pinned
by an Opponent
A character is pinned is held immobile (but not helpless)
for one round. While he is pinned, he cannot dodge or
parry. His effective Dexterity is zero, which gives him a
–5 penalty to Defence. He also takes a –4 penalty to his
Defence against opponents other than the one pinning
him. (Effectively, if the character is a normal human, his
Defence in such a situation is 5 against the person grappling
him and 1 against other opponents.) At his opponent’s
option, the character may also be unable to speak. He
can try to escape the pin on his turn by making a grapple
check against his opponent’s Grapple Defence in place of
an attack. He can also make an Escape Artist check against
his Grapple Defence (in place of his grapple check) but this
requires a standard action. If the character wins, he escapes
the pin but is still grappling.
Joining a Grapple
If a character’s target is already grappling someone else,
the character can use an attack to start a grapple, as above,
except that the target does not get an attack of opportunity
against him and his grab automatically succeeds. He still has
to make a successful grapple check against his opponent’s
Grapple Defence to become part of the grapple.
If there are multiple opponents involved in the grapple,
pick one to make the grapple check against.
Multiple Grapplers
Several combatants can be involved in a single grapple.
Up to four combatants can grapple a single opponent in a
given round. Creatures that are one or more size categories
smaller than you count for half, creatures that are one size
category larger than you count double and creatures two
or more size categories larger count quadruple. When a
character is grappling with multiple opponents, he should
choose one opponent to make a grapple check against. If
he wishes instead to escape the grapple, his grapple check
must beat the Grapple Defence of each of his opponents.
Mounted Combat
Horses in Combat
Warhorses can readily serve as combat steeds. Light horses
and workhorses, however, are frightened by combat.
Unless he dismounts, a character must make a DC 20
Ride check each round as a move action to control
such a horse. If he succeeds, he can perform a standard
action after the move action. If he fails, the move action
becomes a full round action and he cannot do anything
else until his next turn.
A character’s mount acts on his initiative count
as he directs it. The character moves at the
mount’s speed but the mount uses its action
to move. A horse is a Large creature and
thus takes up a 10 foot by 10 foot space. For
simplicity, assume that a character shares his
mount’s space during combat.
Combat
While Mounted
With a DC 5 Ride check, a character
can guide his mount with his
knees so as to use both hands to
attack or defend himself. This
is a free action. When attacking
from a mounted position
202
Combat
you will usually gain the +1 bonus on melee attacks for
being on higher ground when attacking foot soldiers.
This bonus does not apply if your target is as large as
your mount or larger. If a character’s mount moves more
than five feet, he can only make a single melee attack.
Essentially, the character has to wait until the mount gets
to his enemy before he can attack. Even at his mount’s full
speed, a character does not take any penalty on melee
attacks while mounted.
If a character’s mount charges, he
must also take the
penalty to Defence
associated with a
charge. If he makes
an attack at the end of
the charge, he receives the
bonus gained from the charge.
A character who charges on
horseback deals double
damage with a lance; see
Charge on page 204.
A character can use
ranged weapons while
his mount is taking a
double move but takes a
–4 penalty on the attack
roll if he does so. He can
use ranged weapons at a –
8 penalty while his mount
is running (quadruple
speed). In either case, the
character makes the attack
roll when his mount has
completed half its movement. He can
make a full attack with a ranged weapon
while his mount is moving. Likewise, he
can take move actions normally.
Casting Spells
While Mounted
A character can cast a spell normally if his mount
moves up to a normal move (its speed) either
before or after the spell is cast. If a
character has his mount move
both before and after he casts
a spell, then the spell is cast
while the mount is moving
and the character
has to make
a Concentration check due to the vigorous motion (DC
10 + PP cost) or lose the spell. If the mount is running
(quadruple speed), the Concentration check is more
difficult due to the violent motion (DC 15 + PP cost).
If a Mount
Falls in Battle
If a character’s
mount falls,
the character has
to succeed on a
DC 15 Ride check to
make a soft fall and take no
damage. If the check fails, he
takes 1d6 points of damage.
If a Character
is wounded
If a character is knocked unconscious,
he has a 50% chance of staying in the
saddle. Otherwise, he falls and takes
1d6 points of damage. Without a
rider to guide it, the character’s mount
avoids combat unless it is of greater
than animal intelligence. In that case,
the mount acts like a creature of its
abilities and intellect and is generally
controlled by the Games Master.
Multiple Opponents
Even Conan fears being attacked by multiple foes,
especially if they are at all well-trained. As well as the
potential reduction in Dodge Defence for a character who
is crowded in on all sides (see the Parry and Dodge sections,
page 173), there is always a danger that halfway competent
foes will attack in concert, making it hard to defend against
them all at once.
During each round of combat, if several characters use
melee weapons to attack one enemy in the same round, each
of the attackers after the first to attack gains a cumulative
+1 circumstance bonus on attack rolls. These bonuses only
ever apply to melee attacks.
Note that these bonuses are in addition to flanking bonuses
if applicable. Class features or feats that make characters
immune to being flanked do not affect the cumulative +1
circumstance bonus for multiple opponents.
203
Combat
For example: Llyr is a high-level pirate with a Dodge Defence
of 24. He is attacked by 10 low-level thugs armed with
scimitars. In the first round, due to a wall in their path, only
five can reach him to attack – if they survive that long. They
each have a +2 base attack bonus and attack once per round.
In the first round, the first attacker rolls d20+2 for his attack,
the second d20+3, the third d20+4, the fourth d20+5 and the
fifth d20+6. Llyr readies his war sword, having slain one of
his enemies and dispatching another two of his foes on his own
action, before sidestepping to get his back to the wall.
On the second round, though all his enemies are now close by,
only five of them will be able to attack Llyr again, since the
wall prevents any more than that from hitting him. This time,
however, Llyr’s Dodge Defence has a –2 circumstance penalty,
as he does not have room to manoeuvre properly. Despite being
of far higher level than his opponents, he is hit three times
but manages to slay another two enemies. Round three begins
under the same circumstances, since the remaining two foes
close up the gaps but at least this time Llyr knows that if he can
kill one of them he will be able to move away once more and
avoid the penalty to Dodge Defence once he does.
Two-Weapon Fighting
If a combatant wields a second weapon in his off hand, that
combatant can get one extra attack per round with that
weapon when he takes a full attack action.
Fighting in this way is very hard, however and a combatant
suffers a –6 penalty to both his main weapon and his offhand
weapon attack rolls.
A combatant can reduce these stiff penalties in two ways:
* If at least one of a combatant’s weapons is light, the
penalty is reduced to –2. An unarmed strike is always
considered light.
* The Two-Weapon Combat Proficiency feat reduces the
penalties associated with two-weapon fighting by two.
Thus a character with this feat has only a –4 penalty to
both attacks if using two one-handed weapons or no
penalty at all if at least one of his weapons is light.
For example, a 7th level soldier with a base attack bonus of
+7/+2 could make two attacks with his primary weapon at +7
and +2 respectively. Alternatively, he could make two attacks
with his primary weapon at +3 and at –2 and one attack
with a one-handed secondary weapon at +3 (all soldiers are
proficient with two-weapon combat). If he wished to use a
light weapon in his off hand, he could make two attacks with
his primary weapon at +7/+2 and one attack with the light
secondary weapon at +7.
Double Thrown Weapons
The same rules apply when a weapon is
thrown from each hand.
204
Combat
Special Attacks
and Manoeuvres
Aid Another
You help a friend attack or defend by distracting or
interfering with their opponent.
Action: Standard
Circumstance: A character is in position to make a
melee attack on an opponent that is engaging a friend in
melee combat.
Effect: The character can attempt to aid his friend as a
standard action by making an attack roll against a Defence
of 10. If he succeeds, his friend gains either a +2 bonus on
his next attack roll against that opponent, or a +2 bonus
to Defence against that opponent’s next attack (character’s
choice), as long as that attack comes before the beginning
of the character’s next turn. Multiple characters can aid the
same friend and similar bonuses stack.
A character can also use this manoeuvre to help a friend in
other ways, such as when he is affected by a spell or to assist
another character’s skill check.
Aim
You prepare to loose an especially accurate arrow.
Action: Full-round
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Circumstance: The character uses a bow or crossbow.
Effect: The character gains a +2 circumstance bonus to his
next ranged attack. This ranged attack must be taken as
his first action in the round following the one in which he
takes the Aim action.
Bull Rush
You charge into a foe, knocking him back.
Action: Standard
Effect: A character can make a bull rush as a standard
action (an attack) or as part of a charge (see Charge,
below). When he makes a bull rush, he attempts to
push an opponent straight back instead of damaging
him. A character can only bull rush an opponent
who is one size category larger than
himself, the same size or smaller.
First, move into the
defender’s space. Doing
this provokes an
attack of
opportunity from each opponent that threatens the
rushing character, including the defender. If he has the
Improved Bull Rush feat, he does not provoke an attack of
opportunity from the defender.
Next, the rusher and the defender make opposed Strength
checks. Each adds a +4 bonus for each size category he is
larger than Medium or a –4 penalty for each size category
he is smaller than Medium. The rusher get a +2 bonus if
he is charging. The defender gets a +4 bonus if he has more
than two legs or is otherwise exceptionally stable.
If the rusher beats the defender’s Strength check result, the
defender is pushed him back five feet. If the rusher wishes
to move with the defender, he can push the defender back
an additional five feet for each five points by which his
check result is greater than the defender’s check result. He
cannot, however, exceed his normal movement limit. The
defender provokes attacks of opportunity if he is moved.
So does the attacker, if he moves with him. The two of you
do not provoke attacks of opportunity from each other,
however. Any attack of opportunity made by anyone other
than the defender during this stage of a bull rush has a
25% chance of accidentally targeting the defender instead.
Similarly, any attack of opportunity by anyone other
than the rusher against the defender has a 25% chance of
accidentally targeting the rusher. When someone makes an
attack of opportunity, make the attack roll and then roll
to see whether the attack goes astray. If you fail to beat the
defender’s Strength check result, you move 5 feet straight
back to where you were before you moved into his space. If
that space is occupied, you fall prone in that space.
Cat’s Parry
You parry your opponent’s wrist rather than his blade.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Base parry bonus +3.
Circumstance: Must be parrying.
Effect: The attacker gains a +4 circumstance bonus to his
attack roll but if he misses the defender may immediately
make an attack of opportunity against him.
Charge
You hurl yourself into the fray!
Action: Full-round
Circumstance: The character has line of sight to a foe and
moves at least 10 feet towards him as part of the charge.
Effect: Charging is a special full-round action that allows a
character to move up to twice his speed and attack during
the action. However, it carries tight restrictions on how
you can move.
205
Combat
The character must move before his attack, not after. He
must move at least 10 feet (two squares) and may move
up to double his speed directly toward his designated
opponent. He must have a clear path toward the opponent
and nothing can hinder the charging character’s movement,
such as difficult terrain or obstacles. A clear path is defined
as follows. First, the character must move to the closest
space from which he can attack his opponent. If this
space is occupied or otherwise blocked, the character
cannot charge. Second, if any line from his starting space
to the ending space passes through a square that blocks
movement, slows movement or contains a creature (even
an ally), the character cannot charge. Helpless creatures do
not stop a charge.
If a player does not have line of sight to the opponent at
the start of his turn, he cannot charge that opponent. He
cannot take a five-foot step in the same round as a charge.
If he is able to take only a standard action or a move action
on his turn, he can still charge but is only allowed to move
up to his speed instead of up to double speed. A player
cannot use this option unless he is restricted to taking only
a standard action or move action on his turn.
After moving, a player may make a single melee attack. He
gets a +2 bonus on the attack roll and takes a –2 penalty to
Defence until the start of his next turn. Even if he has extra
attacks, such as from having a high enough base attack
bonus or from using multiple weapons, he only gets to
make one attack during a charge.
A charging character gets a +2 bonus on the Strength check
made to bull rush or overrun an opponent. See Bull Rush,
left and Overrun, page 209.
Bull’s Charge
A low charge can allow a character to get under his enemy’s
guard to stab deep into his belly. However, doing so renders
the charging character very vulnerable to a counterattack.
Action: Full-round
Prerequisite: Str 13, Power Attack.
Circumstance: A character must be wielding a slashing or
piercing weapon and charging.
Effect: The character gains a +2 bonus on his damage roll
when charging but provokes an attack of opportunity from
his target before he can make his attack roll.
Leaping Charge
Action: Charge
Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +6, Jump 1 rank.
Effect: When a character makes a charge attack, he may
make a second attack at his highest base attack bonus,
though both attacks are at a –2 circumstance penalty. The
circumstance penalty to Defence for charging is increased
from the usual –2 to –4.
Dance Aside
You move while dodging.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Dex 13.
Circumstance: An opponent’s attack roll is less than half
the dodging character’s Dodge Defence.
Effect: The dodging character may immediately take a
five-foot step, as he nimbly dances out of the way of an
opponent’s attack.
Decapitating Slash
You take advantage of an opponent’s dropped defences
to slice his head clean off. This leaves you open to
counterattack and so is usually only done if you are fighting
only one opponent.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +10.
Circumstance: The character’s opponent provokes an
attack of opportunity.
Effect: The character attempts a particularly devastating
attack of opportunity. If he scores a critical hit against
his opponent, the opponent must make a Fortitude
saving throw (DC = 5 + total damage dealt, after taking
into account damage reduction) or be instantly killed,
his head severed. The attacking character suffers a –4
circumstance penalty to Defence for the one round
immediately following his attack of opportunity.
Delay
You wait for the right time to act.
Action: Special
Effect: The character takes no action and
then acts normally when he decides to act.
When a character delays, he voluntarily
reduces his own initiative result for the rest of
the combat. When his new, lower initiative
count comes up later in the same round, he
can act normally. The player can specify
this new initiative result or wait until
some time later in the round to act,
thus fixing his new initiative count
at that point. He does not get back
206
Combat
the time spent waiting, nor can he interrupt anyone else’s
action. If he wants to interrupt or pre-empt an action, see
Ready on page 210.
If a player comes to his next action and has not yet
performed an action, he does not get to take a delayed
action, though he can delay again. If he takes a delayed
action in the next round, before his regular turn comes up,
his initiative count rises to that new point in the order of
battle and he does not get his regular action that round.
Desperate Stab
You make a stab for your opponent’s heart or throat
before combat has otherwise begun, relying on quickness
but desperately gambling that the attack will be
sufficient to slay them instantly, since it leaves you wide
open to a counterattack.
Action: Standard
Prerequisite: Improved Initiative, base attack bonus +15.
Circumstance: It must be the first round of combat, the
character’s opponent must be unable to use Dodge Defence
or Parry Defence through being flat-footed and the attack
must be made with finesse.
Effect: As the first attack of the combat, a character may
attempt to slay his enemy outright. The attack is made as
normal. If it hits, the opponent must make a Fortitude
saving throw (DC = damage dealt by the attack) or die
instantly. If the opponent is still alive, he gains a +2
circumstance bonus to his attack rolls and damage against
the attacker for the remainder of the round.
Devastating Sweep
A character can swing his weapon around, forcing his foes
back to clear sufficient space for him to flee.
Action: Standard
Prerequisite: Whirlwind Attack.
Circumstance: The attacker must be wielding a slashing
weapon, either one-handed or two-handed. At least five
adjacent squares must be occupied. He must not attack
with finesse.
Effect: As a standard action, a character may swing his
weapon in a sweeping motion. Any characters within
five feet have the option of immediately taking a
five-foot step away as a free action, so as
to be out of range. The attacking
character gains an attack at
his highest base attack bonus
against any characters who
do not choose to move
away.
Disarm
You knock a weapon out of your foe’s hand!
Action: Standard
Circumstance: The character is in melee combat with a
foe.
Effect: As a melee attack, a character may attempt to disarm
his opponent. If he uses a weapon to do so, he knocks the
opponent’s weapon out of his hands and to the ground. If
the attacking character attempts to disarm an opponent
while unarmed, he ends up with the weapon in his hand.
In attempting to disarm a melee weapon, follow the steps
outlined here. If the item a character is attempting to
disarm is something other than a melee weapon, such as
an artefact that a sorcerer is shaking angrily, the defender
may still oppose the attempt with an attack roll but takes
a –4 penalty and cannot attempt to disarm the attacker in
return if the disarm attempt fails.
* Step 1: Attack of Opportunity: The character provokes
an attack of opportunity from the target he is trying to
disarm. If the attacker has the Improved Disarm feat,
he does not incur an attack of opportunity for making a
disarm attempt. If the defender’s attack of opportunity
deals any damage, the disarm attempt fails.
* Step 2: Opposed Rolls: The attacker and the defender
make opposed attack rolls with their respective weapons.
The wielder of a two-handed weapon on a disarm
attempt gets a +4 bonus on this roll and the wielder of
a light weapon takes a –4 penalty. An unarmed strike
is considered a light weapon so the attacker always take
a penalty when trying to disarm an opponent using
an unarmed strike. If the combatants are of different
sizes, the larger combatant gets a bonus on the attack
roll of +4 per difference in size category. If the targeted
item is not a melee weapon, the defender takes a –4
penalty on the roll.
* Step Three: Consequences: If the attacker beats the
defender, the defender is disarmed. If the disarm
action was attempted unarmed, the attacker gains
the weapon. If the attacker was armed, the defender’s
weapon is on the ground in the defender’s square. If the
disarm attempt failed, the defender may immediately
react and attempt to disarm the attacker with the same
sort of opposed melee attack roll. His attempt does not
provoke an attack of opportunity. If the defender fails
his disarm attempt, he does not subsequently get a free
disarm attempt against him.
Note: Gauntlets cannot be removed with a disarm
attempt.
207
Combat
Disarm and
Grabbing Weapons
A character can use a disarm action to snatch an item his
target is wearing. The disarm must be made as an unarmed
attack to take the item in hand. If the item is poorly secured
or otherwise easy to snatch or cut away, the attacker gets a
+4 bonus. Unlike on a normal disarm attempt, the defender
may not attempt to disarm the attacker on a failed attempt.
This otherwise functions identically to a disarm attempt,
as noted above.
A character cannot snatch an item that is well secured
unless he has pinned the wearer; see Grapple on page 199.
Even then, the defender gains a +4 bonus on his roll to
resist the attempt.
Masterful Disarm
You knock your opponent’s weapon from his grasp with
one hand and catch it with the other.
Action: Standard
Prerequisite: Dex 13.
Circumstance: The attacker must be using a one-handed
weapon and have his other hand free.
Effect: If the attacker beats his opponent in the opposed
disarm roll by five or more, the attacker may immediately
make a Dexterity check (DC 15). If he succeeds, he catches
whatever object he just knocked out of his opponent’s grasp
in his other hand.
Ranged Disarm
Action: Standard
Prerequisite: Precise Shot, Improved Disarm.
Effect: You may make disarm attempts with a ranged weapon.
Distracting Arrow
Your shot draws your foe’s attention, putting him off his guard.
Action: Standard
Prerequisite: Precise Shot.
Circumstance: Firing at a foe.
Effect: The character must take a –4 penalty to his attack
roll. If he still hits, his target suffers a –2 penalty to his
Defence for the rest of the round.
Feint
You fool your opponent by feinting one way, then
attacking.
Action: Standard (or Move, with the Improved Feint feat)
Circumstance: A character is in combat with a foe.
Effect: To feint, make a Bluff check opposed by the target’s
Sense Motive check. The target may add his base attack
bonus to this Sense Motive check. If the character’s Bluff
check result exceeds his target’s Sense Motive check result,
the target may not dodge or parry the next melee attack
the character makes against him. This attack must be made
on or before the attacker’s next turn. Feinting is a favourite
tactic of many finesse fighters.
When feinting in this way against a non-humanoid, the
attacker takes a –4 penalty. Against a creature of animal
Intelligence (1 or 2), he takes a –8 penalty. Feinting is
impossible against a non-intelligent creature. Feinting in
combat does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
With the Improved Feint feat, a character can attempt a
feint as a move action instead of as a standard action.
Force Back
You drive your foe back with the ferocity of your attack.
Action: Standard
Prerequisite: Power Attack.
Circumstance: The character is in melee
combat with a foe.
Effect: The attacker takes a –4 penalty to his
attack roll. If he hits, his opponent may move
back one five-foot square. If the opponent
does not move, he takes an extra 4 points of
damage (8 damage if using a two-handed
weapon or a one-handed weapon with two
hands). If the opponent does move, the
attacker may follow up for free without
drawing attacks of opportunity.
The opponent, on the other hand,
does draw attacks of opportunity
if he retreats.
208
Combat
Fling Aside
If you are sufficiently strong, you can simply pick up his
enemy one-handed and hurl him aside.
Action: Standard
Prerequisite: Str 15, Improved Grapple, Improved Trip.
Circumstance: The attacker must have one hand free.
Effect: A character makes a melee touch attack to grab
an opponent, then makes a grapple check against the
opponent’s Grapple Defence, just as though starting a
grapple. If the grapple check succeeds, the attacker throws
his opponent to the ground in any square adjacent to the
attacker. The attacker is not grappling his opponent but
the impact with the ground deals damage to him as though
he had been hit with an unarmed strike and he is knocked
prone. This is not a trip, and so does not entitle the attacker
to a free attack from his Improved Trip feat.
Hooking Parry
You swing your axe (or similar martial weapon) around the
shaft of your enemy’s weapon, holding it out of line so it
cannot be used.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Dexterity 13, base parry bonus +1.
Circumstance: The character has just used an axe,
battleaxe, bill, bardiche or polearm to parry an enemy’s
reach weapon.
Effect: So long as one does not use the parrying weapon
for any other purpose (including making further attacks
or parries) his opponent may not use his reach weapon
for any purpose either. As a standard action the opponent
may make an attack roll with his weapon opposed to the
character’s Parry Defence with his weapon. If the opponent
is successful with this opposed attack roll, or if the character
moves out of range of his reach weapon, he may wield his
weapon normally again.
Human Shield
You swing your distracted enemy around in an attempt to
parry another enemy’s attack with his body.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Strength 13, Improved Grapple.
Circumstance: Earlier in the round the character
has dealt damage to his opponent while
grappling him and is now being attacked
by another opponent while still
grappling the first.
Effect: If the character
succeeds in a grapple
check, he may use
his grappled
opponent to parry with, just as though he were a shield.
This is an exception to the normal rule that one may not
parry while in a grapple. The Parry Bonus the character
gains from this action is equal to his Strength bonus –1,
to a minimum of +0 and a maximum of +2 – the grappled
opponent is large and is somewhat awkward to move about
even when using both hands. If the character successfully
parries the second opponent’s attack, normal damage from
that attack is dealt to the opponent he is grappling.
Improvised Attack
You grab an object and use it as an improvised weapon as
part of an attack.
Action: Free
Prerequisite: Str 13, Dex 13.
Circumstance: A character is making a melee attack on a
foe and there is another enemy within reach. The character
must have one hand free.
Effect: By taking a –2 circumstance penalty on his first
attack roll against a target, the character may immediately
make an extra attack at his highest base attack bonus on
a second foe within reach. This second attack must use
an improvised weapon. A character can only make one
Improvised Attack per round and must use a different
improvised weapon or select a different target each time.
Kip Up
You flip back up to your feet from a prone position.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Jump 5 ranks or Tumble 5 ranks, Mobility.
Circumstance: The character has just been knocked
prone.
Effect: The character may immediately make a Jump or
Tumble check (DC 20) as a reaction to having been knocked
over. If successful, he immediately regains his footing. He
still draws attacks of opportunity when standing up.
Leave Them for Dead
You ignore your lesser foes, trusting to your blade to sort
them out!
Action: Free
Prerequisite: Cleave.
Circumstance: The character has just struck a foe but not
downed him.
Effect: The opponent immediately gets an attack of
opportunity with a +4 bonus to his attack roll. The attacker
may then make a Cleave attack on another opponent as
if he had downed the first opponent. You may use this
technique in conjunction with Great Cleave, but can only
attack each opponent within reach once.
209
Combat
Lock Weapons
You and your foe lock your blades together and struggle
for supremacy.
Action: Immediate
Circumstance: A character’s attack roll is exactly equal
to his opponent’s Parry Defence or his Parry Defence is
exactly equal to his opponent’s attack roll.
Effect: The two combatants’ weapons are locked together.
Both characters make opposed grapple checks – the winner
may choose to knock the loser back five feet. If the winner’s
score is 10 or more points higher than the loser’s, the loser
is also knocked prone in his new square.
Overrun
You run past – or over – a foe.
Action: Standard
Effect: The character can attempt an overrun as a
standard action during his move or as part of a charge. In
general, he cannot take a standard action during a move;
overrun is an exception. With an overrun, the character
attempts to plough past or over his opponent (and move
through his square) as he moves. A character can only
overrun an opponent who is one size category larger,
the same size or smaller than himself. Only one overrun
attempt can be made per round. Follow these steps to
make an overrun attempt:
* Step 1: Attack of Opportunity: Since the attacker begins the
overrun by moving into the defender’s space, the attacker
provokes an attack of opportunity from the defender.
* Step 2: Opponent Avoids? The defender may simply
avoid the attacker. If he does so, he does not suffer any
ill effect. If the attacker attempts the overrun as part of
a charge, he may keep moving. (A character can always
move through a square occupied by someone who lets
him by.) In either case, the overrun attempt does not
count against the attacker’s actions this round, except
for any movement required to enter the opponent’s
square. If the opponent does not avoid the attacker,
move to Step 3.
* Step 3: Opponent Blocks? If the opponent blocks the
attacker, the attacker makes a Strength check opposed
by the defender’s Dexterity or Strength check (defender
chooses). A combatant gets a +4 bonus on the check
for every size category he is larger than Medium or a
–4 penalty for every size category he is smaller than
Medium. The attacker gains a +2 bonus on his Strength
check if he makes the overrun as part of a charge.
The defender gets a +4 bonus on his check
if he has more than two legs or is otherwise
more stable than a normal humanoid. If the attacker
wins, the defender is knocked prone. If he loses, the
defender may immediately react and make a Strength
check opposed by the attacker’s Dexterity or Strength
check (attacker chooses), including the size modifiers
noted above but no other modifiers, to try to knock the
attacker prone.
* Step 4: Consequences: If the attacker succeeds in
knocking his opponent prone, he can continue his
movement as normal. If he fails and is knocked prone
in turn, he must move five feet back the way he came
and fall prone, ending his movement there. If he fails
but is not knocked prone, he must move five feet back
the way he came, ending his movement there. If that
square is occupied, he falls prone in that square.
Improved Overrun
If a character has the Improved Overrun feat, his target
may not choose to avoid him.
Mounted Overrun (Trample)
If a character attempts an overrun while mounted, his
mount makes the Strength check to determine the success
or failure of the overrun attack and applies its size modifier
in place of the character’s. If the character has the Trample
feat and attempts an overrun while mounted, the target
may not choose to avoid him. If the attacker knocks his
opponent prone with the overrun, the attacker’s mount
may make one hoof attack against the opponent.
Pantherish Twist
When two attackers attempt to flank you, you may
twist away at the last moment, forcing them to
attack one another.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Improved uncanny dodge.
Circumstance: The defending character must
be dodging.
Effect: If two opponents move into positions
which would usually allow them to flank an
opponent, the opponent who has improved
uncanny dodge can choose to force both of
them to make opposed Dexterity checks
with him. If one or both of the
attackers lose the opposed Dexterity
check, he or they must attack
the other enemy instead of their
intended opponent. However, if
one or both of them win
210
Combat
the opposed Dexterity check, there is a +2 circumstance
bonus on his or their attack and damage rolls against the
opponent. These effects only ever apply to the first attack
each opponent makes.
Ready
You prepare a specifi c move to be unleashed when a certain
trigger or event occurs.
Action: Special
Effect: The ready action lets a character prepare to take
an action later, after his turn is over but before his next
one has begun. Readying is a standard action. It does not
provoke an attack of opportunity, though the action that is
readied might do so.
Readying an Action
A character can ready a standard action, a move action or a
free action. To do so, he must specify the action he will take
and the conditions under which he will take it. Then, any
time before his next action, he may take the readied action
in response to that condition. The readied action occurs
just before the action that triggers it. If the triggered action
is part of another character’s activities, the readied action
interrupts the other character. Assuming he is still capable
of doing so, the interrupted character continues his actions
once the readied action has been completed. The initiative
result of the character who readied the action changes as
noted below. For the rest of the encounter, his initiative
result is the count on which he took the readied action and
he acts immediately ahead of the character whose action
triggered the readied action.
A character can take a five-foot step as part of his readied
action but only if he does not otherwise move any distance
during the round.
Initiative Consequences
of Readying
A character’s initiative result becomes the count on
which he takes the readied action. If he comes to his
next action and has not yet performed his readied
action, he does not get to take the readied action,
though he can ready the same action
again. If he takes his readied
action in the next round,
before his regular turn, his
initiative count rises to that new point in the order of battle
and he does not get his regular action that round.
Distracting Sorcerers
A character can ready an attack against a sorcerer with the
trigger ‘if he starts casting a spell.’ If he is hit the sorcerer
may lose the spell he was trying to cast, as determined by
his Concentration check result.
Readying a Weapon
against a Charge
A character can ready certain piercing weapons by setting
them to receive charges. A readied weapon of this type deals
double damage if a character scores a hit with it against a
charging opponent.
Riposte
You parry with such skill that you open up your opponent’s
defences.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Base parry bonus +4.
Circumstance: The opponent’s attack is less than half of
your total Parry Defence.
Effect: The character may immediately take an attack of
opportunity against his foe.
Roll
You throw yourself to one side.
Action: Immediate
Circumstance: A character is prone and being attacked in
melee.
Effect: A character makes a Tumble check against a DC
equal to his foe’s attack roll. If successful, he does not suffer
the normal –4 penalty to Defence for being prone.
Shield Slam
A character blocks so forcefully that he knocks his
opponent’s blade far to one side, opening him up for a
devastating counter-attack.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Base parry bonus +2.
Circumstance: The character must be parrying with a
shield.
Effect: When a character parries an opponent’s attack,
the defending character may make an opposed Strength
check against his foe. If he loses, his opponent immediately
damages the defender’s shield as if he had succeeded in a
211
Combat
sunder attempt (see below). If he succeeds, his opponent
suffers a –2 circumstance penalty to his Parry Defence
until his next action.
Sunder
With a mighty blow, you smash your foe’s weapon to pieces!
Action: Standard
Circumstance: The character must be in melee combat
with a foe who is using a weapon or shield.
Effect: The character can use a melee attack with a slashing
or bludgeoning weapon to strike a weapon or shield that
his opponent is holding. Follow the steps outlined here
to attempt to sunder a weapon or shield. Attacking held
objects other than weapons or shields is covered below.
* Step 1: Attack of Opportunity: The character provokes
an attack of opportunity from the target whose weapon
or shield he is trying to sunder. If the attacker has the
Improved Sunder feat, he does not incur an attack of
opportunity for making the attempt.
* Step 2: Opposed Rolls: The attacker and the defender
make opposed attack rolls with their respective
weapons. The wielder of a two-handed weapon on a
sunder attempt gets a +4 bonus on this roll and the
wielder of a light weapon takes a –4 penalty. If the
combatants are of different sizes, the larger combatant
gets a bonus of +4 per difference in size category
on the attack roll.
* Step 3: Consequences: If the attacker beats the defender,
the attacker rolls damage and deal it to the weapon
or shield. See the Weapons, Primitive Weapons,
Akbitanan Weapons and Shields tables in the
Equipment chapter to determine how much damage
must be dealt to destroy the weapon or shield. If
the attacker fails the sunder attempt, he does not
deal any damage. Note: A character may not use
Armour Piercing when attacking an object, nor can
he bypass its hardness with finesse. See Breaking
Objects, page 217.
Sundering a Carried
or Worn Object
A character does not use an opposed attack roll to damage
a carried or worn object. Instead, he makes an attack roll
against the object’s Dodge Defence. A carried or worn
object’s Dodge Defence is equal to 10 + its size modifier +
the Dexterity modifier of the carrying or wearing character.
Attacking a carried or worn object provokes
an attack of opportunity, just as attacking a
held object does. To attempt to snatch away an item
worn by a defender rather than damage it, see Disarm
on page 206. A character cannot sunder armour worn
by another character.
Sundering Parry
Rather than simply setting aside an opponent’s weapon,
you attempt to hack it through with your own.
Action: Immediate
Prerequisite: Improved Sunder, base parry bonus +1.
Circumstance: The character must be parrying.
Effect: The defender takes a –2 circumstance penalty to
his Parry Defence. However, if he succeeds in parrying
his enemy’s weapon, he may immediately make a sunder
attempt as a free action that does not provoke an attack of
opportunity. All the usual modifiers apply (including the
+4 bonus for the Improved Sunder feat) and the defender
suffers an additional –2 circumstance penalty to the
sundering attack roll.
Throw Splash Weapon
You hurl a vial or grenade or other splash weapon at an
enemy.
Action: Standard
Effect: A splash weapon is a ranged weapon that breaks on
impact, splashing or scattering its contents over its target
and nearby creatures or objects. To attack with a splash
weapon, make a ranged touch attack against the target.
Thrown weapons require no weapon proficiency, so do
not take the –4 non-proficiency penalty. A hit deals
direct hit damage to the target and splash damage to all
creatures within five feet of the target.
A character can target a specific grid intersection
instead of a specific object. Treat this as
a ranged attack against a Defence of 5.
However, if a grid intersection is targeted,
creatures in all adjacent squares are dealt
the splash damage and the direct hit damage
is not dealt to any creature. A player cannot
target a grid intersection occupied by a
Large or larger creature; in this case, he is
aiming at the creature.
If you miss the target, whether aiming at a
creature or a grid intersection, roll 1d8.
This determines the misdirection
of the throw, with 1 being straight
back at you and 2 through 8
counting clockwise around the
grid intersection or target
212
Combat
creature. Then, count a number of squares in the indicated
direction equal to the range increment of the throw.
After you determine where the weapon landed, it deals
damage to the square it lands in and all adjacent squares
as described above.
To the Hilt
You take advantage of your enemy’s lack of armour to
plunge your weapon into his body and leave it buried
in his flesh.
Action: Standard
Prerequisite: Power Attack.
Circumstance: The character must be attacking with
a piercing or slashing weapon against an unarmoured
opponent.
Effect: The attacker gains a +2 circumstance modifier to
his damage roll. However, if the damage rolled with the
weapon (before any modifiers for Strength, sneak attacks
and bonuses of any kind) is higher than the character’s
Strength modifier, the weapon sticks into the enemy,
whether he is living or dead.
The attacker or another character, including the one with
the weapon stuck in him if he is still alive, can remove a
stuck weapon by taking a full-round action and making a
Strength check (DC 10). Often characters will find it easier
and quicker to draw or pick up an alternate weapon.
A character with a weapon stuck in him sustains 1d6 damage
every time he takes a move, standard or full-round action.
Trip
You cunningly trip or otherwise topple a foe.
Action: Standard
Circumstance: The character must be in melee combat
with a foe and using either an unarmed attack or a weapon
that allows trip attacks.
Effect: The character can try to trip an opponent as an
unarmed melee attack. He can only trip an opponent
who is one size category larger, the same size, or smaller
than himself.
Making a
Trip Attack
The character makes an
unarmed melee touch attack
against a target. This
provokes an attack of
o p p o r t u n i t y
from
the target as normal for unarmed attacks. If the attacker’s
attack succeeds, he makes a Strength check opposed by the
defender’s Dexterity or Strength check (defender’s choice).
A combatant gets a +4 bonus for every size category he is
larger than Medium, or a –4 penalty for every size category
he is smaller than Medium. The defender gets a +4 bonus on
his check if he has more than two legs or is otherwise more
stable than a normal humanoid. If the attacker wins, he
trips the defender. If he loses, the defender may immediately
react and make a Strength check opposed by the attacker’s
Dexterity or Strength check (attacker’s choice) to try to trip
the attacker.
* Avoiding Attacks of Opportunity: If the attacker has
the Improved Trip feat or if he is tripping with a
weapon (see below) he does not provoke an attack of
opportunity for making a trip attack.
Being Tripped (Prone)
A tripped character is prone. Standing up is a move action
and provokes an attack of opportunity.
Tripping a
Mounted Opponent
A character may make a trip attack against a mounted
opponent. The defender may make a Ride check in place
of his Dexterity or Strength check. If the attacker succeeds,
the rider is pulled from his mount.
Tripping with a Weapon
Some weapons can be used to make trip attacks. In this case, a
character makes a melee touch attack with the weapon instead
of an unarmed melee touch attack and does not provoke an
attack of opportunity. If the character fail his trip attempt, he
can drop the weapon to avoid being tripped in return.
Use The Battlefield
A character takes advantage of some quirk of the battlefield.
Action: Free
Circumstance: The character is in or is entering melee
combat with a foe.
Effect: Describe how a character uses some quirk of the
battlefield to his advantage, like forcing a foe up to the
crumbling edge of a precipice or leaping off a statue in a
temple to attack a high priest. The Games Master may call
for a skill check, normally a Balance, Jump or Tumble. The
DC for this check is generally 20. If the character succeeds,
he gets a +2 circumstance bonus to his attacks against a
particular foe in the round; if he fails, he draws an Attack
of Opportunity from that foe.
213
Combat
Adventuring and
the Wilderness
Encumbrance
Encumbrance rules are based largely on a character’s
Strength score and determine how much his armour and
equipment slow him down. Encumbrance comes in two
parts, namely encumbrance by armour and encumbrance
by total weight. The former is not truly affected by Strength
as it deals largely with the limits of mobility imposed by
the armour itself. The latter is entirely based on Strength,
as the stronger a character is, the greater the load he can
handle without succumbing to the slowing effects of heavy
and unwieldy burdens.
Carrying Capacity
Strength
Score Light Load
Medium
Load Heavy Load
1 3 lb. or less 4–6 lb. 7–10 lb.
2 6 lb. or less 7–13 lb. 14–20 lb.
3 10 lb. or less 11–20 lb. 21–30 lb.
4 13 lb. or less 14–26 lb. 27–40 lb.
5 16 lb. or less 17–33 lb. 34–50 lb.
6 20 lb. or less 21–40 lb. 41–60 lb.
7 23 lb. or less 24–46 lb. 47–70 lb.
8 26 lb. or less 27–53 lb. 54–80 lb.
9 30 lb. or less 31–60 lb. 61–90 lb.
10 33 lb. or less 34–66 lb. 67–100 lb.
11 38 lb. or less 39–76 lb. 77–115 lb.
12 43 lb. or less 44–86 lb. 87–130 lb.
13 50 lb. or less 51–100 lb. 101–150 lb.
14 58 lb. or less 59–116 lb. 117–175 lb.
15 66 lb. or less 67–133 lb. 134–200 lb.
16 76 lb. or less 77–153 lb. 154–230 lb.
17 86 lb. or less 87–173 lb. 174–260 lb.
18 100 lb. or less 101–200 lb. 201–300 lb.
19 116 lb. or less 117–233 lb. 234–350 lb.
20 133 lb. or less 134–266 lb. 267–400 lb.
21 153 lb. or less 154–306 lb. 307–460 lb.
22 173 lb. or less 174–346 lb. 347–520 lb.
23 200 lb. or less 201–400 lb. 401–600 lb.
24 233 lb. or less 234–466 lb. 467–700 lb.
25 266 lb. or less 267–533 lb. 534–800 lb.
26 306 lb. or less 307–613 lb. 614–920 lb.
27 346 lb. or less 347–693 lb. 694–1,040 lb.
28 400 lb. or less 401–800 lb. 801–1,200 lb.
29 466 lb. or less 467–933 lb. 934–1,400 lb.
+10 ×4 ×4 ×4
Encumbrance by Armour
A character’s body armour defines his maximum Dexterity
bonus to his Dodge Defence, armour check penalty, speed
and running speed. Unless a character is weak or carrying
a lot of gear, no further information is necessary. The extra
gear a character carries will not usually slow him down any
more than the armour already does. If, however, a character
is weak or carrying a lot of gear, encumbrance is calculated
by weight. This is most important when a character is
trying to carry some heavy object.
Weight
To determine whether a character’s gear is heavy enough to
slow him down more than his armour already does, total
the weight of all the character’s items, including armour,
weapons and gear. Compare this total to the character’s
Strength on the Carrying Capacity table. Depending
on how the weight compares to the character’s carrying
capacity, he may be carrying a Light, Medium or heavy
load. Like armour, a character’s load affects his maximum
Dexterity bonus to Dodge Defence, carries a check penalty
(which works like an armour check penalty), reduces the
character’s speed and affects how fast the character can run,
as shown on the Carrying Loads table. A heavy load counts
as heavy armour for the purpose of abilities or skills that
are restricted by armour. Carrying a light load does not
encumber a character.
If a character is wearing armour, use the worse figure
(from armour or from load) for each category. Do not
stack the penalties, as a character can only suffer from
one set of encumbrance penalties at a given time.
Lifting and D ragging
A character can lift as much as his maximum
load over his head. A character can lift as
much as double his maximum load off the
ground but he can only stagger around
with it. While overloaded in this way, the
character can neither dodge nor parry and can
move only five feet per round as a full-round
action. A character can generally push or
drag a load along the ground as much as
five times his maximum load. Favourable
conditions can double these numbers,
while bad circumstances can reduce
them to one-half or lower.
214
Combat
Carrying Loads
–—— Speed —–—
Load
Max
Dex
Check
Penalty (30 ft.) (20 ft.) Run
Medium +3 –3 20 ft. 15 ft. ×4
Heavy +1 –6 20 ft. 15 ft. ×3
Bigger and
Smaller Creatures
The figures on the Carrying Capacity table are for
Medium-size bipedal creatures. A larger bipedal creature
can carry more weight depending on its size category, as
follows: Large ×2, Huge ×4, Gargantuan x8, Colossal ×16.
A smaller creature can carry less weight depending on its
size category, as follows: Small ×3/4, Tiny ×1/2, Diminutive
×1/4, Fine ×1/8.
Quadrupeds can carry heavier loads than characters can.
Instead of the multipliers given above, multiply the value
corresponding to the creature’s Strength score on the
Carrying Capacity table by the appropriate modifier, as
follows: Fine ×1/4, Diminutive ×1/2, Tiny ×3/4, Small
×1, Medium ×1.5, Large ×3, Huge x6, Gargantuan ×12,
Colossal ×24.
Tremendous Strength
For Strength scores not shown on the Carrying Capacity
table, find the Strength score between 20 and 29 that
has the same number in the ‘ones’ digit as the creature’s
Strength score does. Next, multiply these numbers by four
for every 10 points by which the creature’s Strength is
above the score for that row.
Armour and Encumbrance
for Other Base Speeds
The table below provides reduced speed figures for all base
speeds from 20 feet to 100 feet, in 10-foot increments.
Base
Speed
Reduced
Speed
20 ft. 15 ft.
30 ft. 20 ft.
40 ft. 30 ft.
50 ft. 35 ft.
60 ft. 40 ft.
70 ft. 50 ft.
80 ft. 55 ft.
90 ft. 60 ft.
100 ft. 70 ft.
Movement
There are three movement scales, as follows:
* Tactical, for combat; measured in feet (or squares) per
round
* Local, for exploring an area; measured in feet per
minute
* Overland, for travelling from place to place; measured
in miles per hour or miles per day
Modes of Movement: While moving at the different
movement scales, creatures generally walk, hustle or run.
Each type of movement affects the character’s speed and the
types of action that can be performed at the same time.
Movement And Distance
———–—— Speed —–————
15 feet 20 feet 30 feet 40 feet
One Round
(Tactical)*
Walk 15 ft. 20 ft. 30 ft. 40 ft.
Hustle 30 ft. 40 ft. 60 ft. 80 ft.
Run (×3) 45 ft. 60 ft. 90 ft. 120 ft.
Run (×4) 60 ft. 80 ft. 120 ft. 160 ft.
One Minute
(Local)
Walk 150 ft. 200 ft. 300 ft. 400 ft.
Hustle 300 ft. 400 ft. 600 ft. 800 ft.
Run (×3) 450 ft. 600 ft. 900 ft. 1,200 ft.
Run (×4) 600 ft. 800 ft. 1,200 ft. 1,600 ft.
One Hour
(Overland)
Walk 1.5 miles 2 miles 3 miles 4 miles
Hustle 3 miles 4 miles 6 miles 8 miles
Run — — — —
One Day
(Overland)
Walk 12 miles 16 miles 24 miles 32 miles
Hustle — — — —
Run — — — —
* Tactical movement is often measured in squares on
the battle grid (one square = five feet) rather than feet.
Walk: A walk represents unhurried but purposeful movement
at about three miles per hour for an unencumbered person.
Hustle: A hustle is a jog at about six miles per hour for an
unencumbered human. A character that moves his speed
twice in a single round, or moves that speed in the same
round he performs a standard action or another move
action is hustling when he moves.
215
Combat
Run (×3): Moving at three times speed is a running
pace for a character in heavy armour. It represents
about nine miles per hour for a human in full plate or
heavy combat armour.
Run (×4): Moving at four times speed is a running pace for
a character in light or no armour. It represents about 12
miles per hour for an unencumbered human, or eight miles
per hour for a human in chainmail or similar armour.
Tactical Movement
Use tactical movement for combat. Characters generally
do not walk during combat. Instead, they hustle or run.
A character who moves his speed and takes some action
is hustling for about half the round and doing something
else for the other half.
Hampered Movement: Difficult terrain, obstacles or
poor visibility can hamper movement. When movement
is hampered, each square a character moves into usually
counts as two squares, effectively reducing the distance
the character can cover in a move. If more than one
condition applies, multiply together all additional costs
that apply. This is a specific exception to the normal
rule for doubling.
In some situations, a character’s movement may be so
hampered that he does not have sufficient speed to move
even five feet or one square on the tactical map. In such
a case, he may use a full-round action to move five feet
(one square) in any direction, even diagonally. Although
this looks like a five-foot step, it is not and thus provokes
attacks of opportunity normally. A character cannot take
advantage of this rule to move through impassable terrain
or to move when all movement is prohibited to him.
A character cannot run or charge through any square that
would hamper his movement.
Hampered Movement
Condition Additional Movement Cost
Difficult terrain ×2
Obstacle* ×2
Poor visibility ×2
Impassable —
* May require a skill check
Local Movement
Characters exploring an area use local movement,
measured in feet per minute.
Walk: A character can walk without a problem on the local
scale.
Hustle: A character can hustle without a problem on the
local scale. See Overland Movement, below, for movement
measured in miles per hour.
Run: A character with a Constitution score of nine or
higher can run for a minute without a problem. Generally,
a character can run for a minute or two before having to
rest for a minute.
Overland Movement
Characters who are covering long distances cross-country
use overland movement. Overland movement is measured
in miles per hour or miles per day. A day represents
eight hours of actual travel time. For rowed watercraft, a
day represents 10 hours of rowing. For a sailing ship, it
represents 24 hours of sailing.
Walk
A character can walk eight hours in a day of travel without
a problem. Walking for longer than that can wear him out;
see Forced March below.
Hustle
A character can hustle for one hour without a problem.
Hustling for a second hour in between sleep cycles deals
one point of nonlethal damage. Each additional hour
deals twice the damage taken during the previous hour
of hustling. A character who takes any nonlethal damage
from hustling becomes fatigued.
A fatigued character cannot run or charge and takes a
penalty of –2 to Strength and Dexterity. Eliminating
the nonlethal damage also eliminates the fatigue.
Run
A character cannot run for an extended period
of time. Attempting to run and rest in cycles,
which is the preferred method for long distance
overland travel when time is not an important
factor, effectively works out to a hustle.
Terrain
The terrain through which a
character travels affects how much
distance he can cover in an hour
or a day; see Terrain and Overland
Movement. A highway is
216
Combat
a straight, major, paved road. A road is typically a dirt or
gravel track. A trail is like a road, except that it allows only
single-file travel and does not benefit a party travelling with
vehicles. Trackless terrain is a wild area with no paths.
Terrain And
Overland Movement
Terrain Highway Road or Trail Trackless
Desert, sandy ×1 ×1/2 ×1/2
Forest ×1 ×1 ×1/2
Hills ×1 ×3/4 ×1/2
Jungle ×1 ×3/4 ×1/4
Moor ×1 ×1 ×3/4
Mountains ×3/4 ×3/4 ×1/2
Plains ×1 ×1 ×3/4
Swamp ×1 ×3/4 ×1/2
Tundra, frozen ×1 ×3/4 ×3/4
Forced March
A character walks for eight hours in a single day of normal
walking. The rest of the daylight time is spent making and
breaking camp, resting and eating. A character can walk
for more than eight hours in a day by making a forced
march. For each hour of marching beyond eight hours, a
Constitution check (DC 10, +2 per extra hour) is required.
If the check fails, the character takes 1d6 points of nonlethal
damage. A character who takes any nonlethal damage
from a forced march becomes fatigued. Eliminating the
nonlethal damage also eliminates the fatigue. It is quite
possible for a character to march into unconsciousness by
pushing himself too hard on a forced march.
Mounted Movement
A mount bearing a rider can move at a hustle. The damage
it takes when doing so, however, is lethal damage. The
creature can also be ridden in a forced march but its
Constitution checks automatically fail. In addition to
this, the damage it takes is lethal damage. Mounts also
become fatigued when they take any damage from
hustling or forced marches.
The Rules of
Exploration
Vision and
Lighting Conditions
Several creatures have darkvision and can see in the dark.
Characters without this quality need light to see by. See the
table below for the area a light source illuminates and how
long it lasts. In an area of bright light, all characters can
see clearly. A creature cannot hide in an area of bright light
unless it is invisible or has cover.
In an area of shadowy illumination, a character can
see dimly. Creatures within this area have concealment
relative to that character. A creature in an area of shadowy
illumination can make a Hide check to conceal itself. In
areas of total darkness, creatures without darkvision are
effectively blinded. In addition to the obvious effects,
a blinded creature has a 50% miss chance in combat
since all opponents have total concealment, can neither
dodge nor parry, takes a –2 penalty to Defence, moves at
half speed and takes a –4 penalty on Search checks and
many skill checks.
Creatures with low-light vision, such as the Wazuli
and other characters with the Eyes of the Cat feat, can
effectively double the given area of bright light and shadowy
illumination when they use this equipment to light their
way. For example, a Wazuli using a torch can see clearly out
to a range of 40 feet and can see shadowy shapes out to 80
feet away. A normal man standing next to him can only see
clearly out to 20 feet and cannot see at all beyond 40 feet.
217
Combat
Light Sources
And Illumination
Object Bright Shadowy Duration
Candle n/a1 5 ft. 1 hour
Torch 20 ft. 40 ft. 1 hr.
1A candle only provides shadowy illumination.
Breaking Objects
When attempting to break an object, a character has
two choices: smash it with a weapon or break it with
sheer strength. Objects can also be broken through the
application of energy other than kinetic but the basic rules
for doing so are largely unchanged. Exceptions to this
principle are noted below when appropriate.
Smashing an Object
The sunder attack is used for smashing a weapon or shield
with a slashing or bludgeoning weapon; see the Combat
chapter. Smashing an object is a lot like sundering a
weapon or shield, except that the attack roll is made against
the object’s Base Defence. Generally, an object can only be
smashed with a bludgeoning or slashing weapon.
Base Defence For Objects
Objects are easier to hit than creatures because they
usually do not move but many are tough enough to
shrug off some damage from each blow. An object’s Base
Defence is equal to 10 + its size modifier + its Dexterity
modifier. An inanimate object has not only a Dexterity
of zero (–5 penalty to Defence) but an additional –2
penalty to its Defence. Furthermore, if a character takes
a full-round action to line up a shot, he gets an automatic
hit with a melee weapon and a +5 bonus on attack rolls
with a ranged weapon.
Size Base Defence Modifier
Colossal –8
Gargantuan –4
Huge –2
Large –1
Medium +0
Small +1
Tiny +2
Diminutive +4
Fine +8
Hardness
Each object has hardness—a number that represents how
well it resists damage. Whenever an object takes damage,
subtract its hardness from the damage. Only damage in
excess of its hardness is deducted from the object’s hit
points.
Object Hardness
Hit
Points
Break
DC
Rope (one inch diameter) 0 2 23
Simple wooden door 5 10 13
Small chest 5 1 17
Good wooden door 5 15 18
Treasure chest 5 15 23
Strong wooden door 5 20 23
Masonry wall (one foot thick) 8 90 35
Hewn stone (three feet thick) 8 540 50
Chain 10 5 26
Manacles 10 10 26
Masterwork manacles 10 10 28
Iron door (two inches thick) 10 60 28
Substance Hardness Hit Points
Paper or cloth 0 2/inch of thickness
Rope 0 2/inch of thickness
Glass 1 1/inch of thickness
Ice 0 3/inch of thickness
Leather or hide 2 5/inch of thickness
Wood 5 10/inch of thickness
Stone 8 15/inch of thickness
Iron or steel 10 30/inch of thickness
Hit Points
An object’s hit point total depends on what
it is made of and how big it is. When an
object’s hit points reach zero, it is ruined.
Very large objects, such as wagons or chariots,
may have separate hit point totals for different
sections or locations.
Energy Attacks: Acid attacks deal damage to
most objects just as they do to creatures;
roll damage and apply it normally after a
successful hit. Fire attacks deal half
damage to most objects; divide
the damage dealt by two before
applying the hardness.
218
Combat
Ranged Weapon Damage: Objects take half damage from
ranged weapons unless the weapon is a siege engine or
something similar. Divide the damage dealt by two before
applying the object’s hardness.
Ineffective Weapons: Certain weapons simply cannot
effectively deal damage to certain other objects.
Immunities: Objects are immune to nonlethal damage and
to critical hits.
Vulnerability to Certain Attacks: Certain attacks are
especially successful against some objects. In such cases,
attacks deal double their normal damage and may ignore
the object’s hardness.
Damaged Objects: A damaged object remains fully
functional until the item’s hit points are reduced to zero, at
which point it is destroyed. Damaged (but not destroyed)
objects can be repaired with the Craft skill.
Breaking Items
When a character tries to break something with sudden
force rather than by dealing damage, use a Strength check
(rather than an attack roll and damage roll, as with the
sunder special attack) to see whether he succeeds. The DC
depends more on the construction of the item than on the
material. If an item has lost half or more of its hit points,
the DC to break it drops by two.
Larger and smaller creatures get size bonuses and size
penalties on Strength checks to break open doors as follows:
Fine –16, Diminutive –12, Tiny –8, Small –4, Large +4,
Huge +8, Gargantuan +12, Colossal +16.
Strength Check to: DC
Break down simple door 13
Break down good door 18
Break down strong door 23
Burst rope bonds 23
Bend iron bars 24
Break down barred door 25
Burst chain bonds 26
Break down iron door 28
Cold and Exposure
Cold and exposure deal nonlethal damage
to living creatures. This nonlethal
damage cannot be recovered
until a character gets out
of the cold and warms
up again. Once
a character
is rendered unconscious through the accumulation of
nonlethal damage, the cold and exposure begin to deal
lethal damage at the same rate.
An unprotected character in cold weather (below 40° F)
must make a Fortitude save each hour (DC 15, + 1 per
previous check) or take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage. A
character who has the Survival skill may receive a bonus on
this saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus to
other characters as well (see the skill Description).
In conditions of severe cold or exposure (below 0° F), an
unprotected character must make a Fortitude save once
every 10 minutes (DC 15, +1 per previous check), taking
1d6 points of nonlethal damage on each failed save. A
character who has the Survival skill may receive a bonus
on this saving throw and may be able to apply this bonus
to other characters as well (see the skill description).
Characters wearing winter clothing only need one check
per hour for cold and exposure damage.
A character who takes any nonlethal damage from cold
or exposure is beset by frostbite or hypothermia (treat
as fatigued). These penalties end when the character
recovers the nonlethal damage he took from the cold and
exposure.
Extreme cold (below –20° F) deals 1d6 points of lethal
damage per minute (no save). In addition, a character must
make a Fortitude save (DC 15, +1 per previous check) or
take 1d4 points of nonlethal damage.
Out across the white blinding plain the chase led.
The trampled red field fell out of sight behind
him, but still Conan kept on with the silent tenacity
of his race. His mailed feet broke through the frozen
crust; he sank deep in the drifts and forged through
them by sheer strength. But the girl danced across
the snow light as a feather floating across a pool; her
naked feet barely left their imprint on the hoar-frost
that overlaid the crust. In spite of the fire in his veins,
the cold bit through the warrior’s mail and fur-lined
tunic; but the girl in her gossamer veil ran as lightly
and as gaily as if she danced through the palm and
rose gardens of Poitain.
– The Frost Giant’s Daughter
219
Combat
Darkness
In the lightless tombs of Stygia or the darkest hours of
the night, some characters or monsters might be able to
see, while others might be blinded. For purposes of the
following points, a blinded creature is one who simply
cannot see through the surrounding darkness.
* Creatures blinded by darkness lose the ability to deal
extra damage due to precision (for example, a ranger’s
favoured enemy or a sneak attack).
* Blinded creatures are hampered in their movement and
must halve their movement.
* All opponents have total concealment from blinded
creatures, so a blinded creature has a 50% miss chance
in combat. A blinded creature must first pinpoint the
location of an opponent in order to attack the right
square; if the blinded creature launches an attack
without pinpointing its foe, it attacks a random
square within its reach. For ranged attacks or spells
against a foe whose location is not pinpointed, roll to
determine which adjacent square the blinded creature
is facing; its attack is directed at the closest target
that lies in that direction.
* A blinded creature cannot Dodge or Parry.
* If a blinded creature is struck by an unseen foe, the
blinded character pinpoints the location of the creature
that struck him (until the unseen creature moves, of
course). The only exception is if the unseen creature has
a reach greater than five feet (in which case the blinded
character knows the location of the unseen opponent
but has not pinpointed him) or uses a ranged attack
(in which case, the blinded character knows the general
direction of the foe but not his location).
* A creature blinded by darkness can make a Listen
check as a free action each round in order to locate
foes (DC equal to opponents’ Move Silently checks). A
successful check lets a blinded character hear an unseen
creature ‘over there somewhere.’ It is almost impossible
to pinpoint the location of an unseen creature. A Listen
check that beats the DC by 20 reveals the unseen
creature’s square but the unseen creature still has total
concealment from the blinded creature.
* A blinded creature can grope about to find unseen
creatures. A character can make a touch attack with
his hands or a weapon into two adjacent squares
using a standard action. If an unseen target is in the
designated square, there is a 50% miss chance on the
touch attack. If successful, the groping character deals
no damage but pinpoints the unseen creature’s current
location. (If the unseen creature moves, its location
is once again unknown.)
* A creature with the scent ability automatically
pinpoints unseen creatures within five feet of
its location.
* A blinded creature takes a –4 penalty on Search checks
and most Strength- and Dexterity-based skill checks,
including any with an armour check penalty. A creature
blinded by darkness automatically fails any skill check
relying on vision.
Falling
Falling Damage: The basic rule is simple: 1d6 points of
damage per 10 feet fallen, to a maximum of 20d6.
If a character deliberately jumps instead of merely
slipping or falling, the damage is the same but the first
1d6 is nonlethal damage. A DC 15 Jump check or DC 15
Tumble check allows the character to avoid any damage
from the first 10 feet fallen and converts any damage from
the second 10 feet to nonlethal damage. Thus, a character
who slips from a ledge 30 feet up takes 3d6 damage. If the
same character deliberately jumped, he takes 1d6 points of
nonlethal damage and 2d6 points of lethal damage. If the
character leaps down with a successful Jump or Tumble
check, he takes only 1d6 points of nonlethal damage and
1d6 points of lethal damage from the plunge.
Falls onto yielding surfaces (soft ground, mud) also convert
the first 1d6 of damage to nonlethal damage. This reduction
is cumulative with deliberate jumps and the Jump skill.
Falling into Water: Falls into water are handled somewhat
differently. If the water is at least 10 feet deep, the first
20 feet of falling do no damage. The next 20 feet do
nonlethal damage (1d3 per 10-foot increment). Beyond
that, falling damage is lethal damage (1d6 per additional
10-foot increment).
Characters who deliberately dive into water take no
damage on a successful DC 15 Swim check or
DC 15 Tumble check, so long as the water is
at least 10 feet deep for every 30 feet fallen.
However, the DC of the check increases by
five for every 50 feet of the dive.
Heat
In the deserts, there are sun-bleached bones
that were once adventurers. Heat can be
more deadly than any desert bandit. Heat
deals nonlethal damage that cannot be
recovered until the character cools
off (reaches shade, survives until
nightfall, gets doused in water
and so forth). Once rendered
220
Combat
unconscious through the accumulation of nonlethal
damage, the character begins to take lethal damage
at the same rate.
A character in very hot conditions (above 90° F) must
make a Fortitude saving throw each hour (DC 15, +1
for each previous check) or take 1d4 points of nonlethal
damage. Characters wearing heavy clothing or armour
of any sort take a –4 penalty on their saves. A character
with the Survival skill may receive a bonus on this saving
throw and may be able to apply this bonus to other
characters as well (see the skill description). Characters
reduced to unconsciousness begin taking lethal damage
(1d4 points per hour).
In severe heat (above 110° F), a character must make a
Fortitude save once every 10 minutes (DC 15, +1 for each
previous check) or take 1d4 points of nonlethal damage.
Characters wearing heavy clothing or armour of any sort
take a –4 penalty on their saves. A character with the
Survival skill may receive a bonus on this saving throw and
may be able to apply this bonus to other characters as well.
Characters reduced to unconsciousness begin taking lethal
damage (1d4 points per each 10-minute period).
A character who takes any nonlethal damage from heat
exposure now suffers from heatstroke and is fatigued.
These penalties end when the character recovers the
nonlethal damage he took from the heat.
Extreme heat (air temperature over 140° F, fire, boiling
water, lava) deals lethal damage. Breathing air in these
temperatures deals 1d6 points of damage per minute (no
save). In addition, a character must make a Fortitude
save every five minutes (DC 15, +1 per previous check)
or take 1d4 points of nonlethal damage. Those wearing
heavy clothing or any sort of armour take a –4 penalty
on their saves.
Boiling water deals 1d6 points of scalding damage unless
the character is fully immersed, in which case it deals
10d6 points of damage per round of exposure.
A burning torch deals 1d6 points of damage if used
as a weapon.
Catching Fire
Characters exposed to burning oil, bonfires or other fires
might find their clothes, hair or equipment on fire.
Characters at risk of catching fire are allowed a DC 15
Reflex save to avoid this fate. If a character’s clothes or hair
catch fire, he takes 1d8 points of damage immediately.
In each subsequent round, the burning character must
make another Reflex saving throw. Failure means he takes
another 1d8 points of damage that round. Success means
that the fire has gone out. (That is, once he succeeds on his
saving throw, he is no longer on fire.)
A character who is on fire may automatically extinguish the
flames by jumping into enough water to douse himself. If
no body of water is at hand, a full-round action rolling on
the ground or smothering the fire with cloaks or the like
permits the character another save with a +4 bonus.
Those unlucky enough to have their clothes or equipment
catch fire must make DC 15 Reflex saves for each item.
Flammable items that fail take the same amount of damage
as the character.
Smoke
A character who breathes heavy smoke must make a
Fortitude save each round (DC 15, +1 per previous check)
or spend that round choking and coughing. A character
who chokes for two consecutive rounds takes 1d6 points
of nonlethal damage. Smoke obscures vision, giving
concealment (20% miss chance) to characters within it.
Starvation and Thirst
Characters might find themselves without food or water
and with no means to obtain them. In normal climates,
Medium characters need at least a gallon of fluids and
about a pound of decent food per day to avoid starvation.
In very hot climates, characters need two or three times as
much water to avoid dehydration.
A character can go without water for one day plus a
number of hours equal to his Constitution score. After
this time, the character must make a Constitution check
each hour (DC 10, +1 for each previous check) or take 1d6
points of nonlethal damage.
A character can go without food for three days, in growing
discomfort. After this time, the character must make a
Constitution check each day (DC 10, +1 for each previous
check) or take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage.
221
Combat
Characters who have taken nonlethal damage from lack of
food or water are fatigued. Nonlethal damage from thirst
or starvation cannot be recovered until the character gets
food or water, as needed – not even magic that restores hit
points heals this damage.
Suffocation
A character who has no air to breathe can hold his breath
for two rounds per point of Constitution. After this period
of time, the character must make a DC 10 Constitution
check in order to continue holding his breath. The save
must be repeated each round, with the DC increasing by
+1 for each previous success.
When the character fails one of these Constitution
checks, he begins to suffocate. In the first round, he falls
unconscious (zero hit points). In the following round,
he drops to –1 hit points and is dying. In the third
round, he suffocates.
Slow Suffocation: A Medium character can breathe easily
for six hours in a sealed chamber measuring 10 feet on
a side. After that time, the character takes 1d6 points of
nonlethal damage every 15 minutes. Each additional
Medium character or significant fire source (a torch, for
example) proportionally reduces the time the air will last.
Water and Drowning
Any character can wade in relatively calm water that does
not go over his head with no check. Similarly, swimming
in calm water only requires skill checks with a DC of
10. Trained swimmers can just take 10. (Remember,
however, that armour or heavy gear makes any attempt
at swimming much more difficult. See the Swim skill
description on page 116.)
By contrast, fast-moving water is much more dangerous.
On a successful DC 15 Swim check or a DC 15 Strength
check, fast-moving water deals 1d3 points of nonlethal
damage per round (1d6 points of lethal damage if flowing
over rocks and cascades). On a failed check, the character
takes the damage and must make another check that round
to avoid going under.
Very deep water is not only generally pitch black, posing
a navigational hazard but worse, it deals water pressure
damage of 1d6 points per minute for every 100 feet the
character is below the surface. A successful Fortitude save
(DC 15, +1 for each previous check) means the diver takes no
damage in that minute. Very cold water deals 1d6
points of nonlethal damage from hypothermia
per minute of exposure.
Any character can hold his breath for a number of rounds
equal to twice his Constitution score. After this period
of time, the character must make a DC 10 Constitution
check every round in order to continue holding his
breath. Each round, the DC increases by one.
When the character finally fails his Constitution check, he
begins to drown. In the first round, he falls unconscious
(zero hit points). In the following round, he
drops to –1 hit points and is dying. In the third
round, he drowns.
It is possible to drown in substances other
than water, such as sand, quicksand, fine dust
and mysterious strangling gasses found in
chasms surrounding sorcerous castles.
Stealth and Detection Underwater: How
far one can see underwater depends on the
water’s clarity. As a guideline, creatures
can see 4d8×10 feet if the water is
clear and 1d8×10 feet if it is murky.
Moving water is always murky,
unless it is in a particularly large,
slow-moving river.
222
Combat
Combat Underwater
Attacks from Land: Characters swimming, floating
or treading water on the surface, or wading in water at
least chest deep, have cover (+4 bonus to Defence) from
opponents on land.
Attacks Underwater: Characters suffer a –2 penalty to
attacks and inflict only half damage on a successful attack
when using slashing or bludgeoning weapons. Piercing
weapons only suffer a –2 penalty to attacks.
Thrown weapons are ineffective underwater, even when
launched from land. Attacks with other ranged weapons
take a –2 penalty on attack rolls for every five feet of
water they pass through, in addition to the normal
penalties for range.
Weather
Natural conditions such as storms and snow can affect a
battle.
Rain, Snow, Sleet and Hail
Rain: Rain reduces visibility ranges by half, resulting in
a –4 penalty on Spot and Search checks. It has the same
effect on flames, ranged weapon attacks and Listen checks
as severe wind.
Snow: Falling snow has the same effects on visibility, ranged
weapon attacks and skill checks as rain. It costs two squares
of movement to enter a snow-covered square. A day of
snowfall leaves 1d6 inches of snow on the ground.
Heavy Snow: Heavy snow has the same effects as normal
snowfall but also restricts visibility as fog does (see Fog,
below). A day of heavy snow leaves 1d4 feet of snow on the
ground. It costs four squares of movement to enter a square
covered with heavy snow. Heavy snow accompanied by
strong or severe winds may result in snowdrifts 1d4×5 feet
deep, especially in and around an object big enough to
deflect the wind—a cabin or a large tent, for instance.
There is a 10% chance that a heavy snowfall will
be accompanied by lightning (see Thunderstorm,
below). Snow has the same effect on flames as
moderate wind.
Sleet: Essentially frozen rain,
sleet has the same effect as
rain while falling (except
that its chance to
extinguish protected flames is 75%) and the same effect as
snow once on the ground.
Hail: Hail does not reduce visibility but the sound of
falling hail makes Listen checks more difficult (–4 penalty).
Sometimes (5% chance) hail can become large enough to
deal one point of lethal damage (per storm) to anything in
the open. Once on the ground, hail has the same effect on
movement as snow.
Storms
The raging winds and driving rain of a storm reduce
visibility ranges by three quarters, imposing a –8 penalty
on Spot, Search and Listen checks. Storms make ranged
weapon attacks impossible, except for those that use siege
weapons, which have a –4 penalty on attack rolls. Storms
automatically extinguish candles, torches and similar
unprotected flames. They cause protected flames, such as
those of lanterns, to dance wildly and have a 50% chance
of extinguishing these lights. See Table: Wind Effects for
possible consequences to creatures caught outside without
shelter during a storm. Storms are categorised according to
the following three types:
Dust storm: Howling desert storms hurl sand across the
sky. This obscures vision, smothers unprotected flames
and can even choke protected flames (50% chance).
Most dust storms are accompanied by severe winds and
leave behind a deposit of 1d6 inches of sand. However,
there is a 10% chance for a more severe dust storm to be
accompanied by windstorm-magnitude winds (see Table:
Wind Effects). These more severe dust storms deal 1d3
points of nonlethal damage each round to anyone caught
out in the open without shelter and also pose a choking
hazard (see Drowning—except that a character with a scarf
or similar protection across his mouth and nose does not
begin to choke until after a number of rounds equal to 10
× her Constitution score). More severe dust storms leave
2d3–1 feet of fine sand in their wake.
Snowstorm: In addition to the wind and precipitation
common to other storms, snowstorms leave 1d6 inches of
snow on the ground.
Thunderstorm: In addition to wind and precipitation
(usually rain but sometimes also hail), thunderstorms
are accompanied by lightning that can pose a hazard to
characters who do not have proper shelter.
Windstorm: When accompanied by little or no precipitation,
windstorms can cause considerable damage simply through
the force of their wind.
223
Combat
Blizzard: The combination of high winds, heavy snow
(typically 1d3 feet) and bitter cold make blizzards deadly
for all who are unprepared for them.
Hurricane: In addition to very high winds and heavy rain,
hurricanes are accompanied by floods. Most adventuring
activity is impossible under such conditions.
Tornado: One in 10 thunderstorms is accompanied by a
tornado.
Powerful Storms: Very high winds and torrential
precipitation reduce visibility to zero, making Spot, Search
and Listen checks and all ranged weapon attacks impossible.
Unprotected flames are automatically extinguished and
protected flames have a 75% chance of being doused.
Creatures caught in area powerful storm must make a DC
20 Fortitude save or face the effects of the storm based on
their size (see Table: Wind Effects). Powerful storms are
divided into the following four types:
Fog
Whether in the form of a low-lying cloud or a mist rising
from the ground, fog obscures all sight beyond five feet.
Characters have concealment when they are five feet away
from other creatures (attacks by or against them have a
20% miss chance).
Winds
The wind can create a stinging spray of sand or dust,
fan a large fire, heel over a small boat and blow
gases or vapours away. If powerful enough, it
can even knock characters down (see the Wind Effects
table), interfere with ranged attacks or impose penalties on
some skill checks.
Light Wind: A gentle breeze, having little or no game effect.
Moderate Wind: A steady wind with a 50% chance of
extinguishing small, unprotected flames, such as candles.
Strong Wind: Gusts that automatically extinguish
unprotected flames (candles, torches and the like).
Such gusts impose a –2 penalty on ranged attack rolls
and on Listen checks.
Severe Wind: In addition to automatically extinguishing
any unprotected flames, winds of this magnitude cause
protected flames (such as those of lanterns) to dance
wildly and have a 50% chance of extinguishing
these lights. Ranged weapon attacks and
Listen checks are at a –4 penalty.
Windstorm: Powerful enough to bring down
branches if not whole trees, windstorms
automatically extinguish unprotected flames
and have a 75% chance of blowing out
protected flames, such as those of lanterns.
Ranged weapon attacks are impossible and
even siege weapons have a –4 penalty on
attack rolls. Listen checks are at a
–8 penalty due to the howling
of the wind.
Wind Force Wind Speed
Ranged Attacks
Normal/Siege Weapons Wind Effect Fort Save DC
Light 0–10 mph —/— — —
Moderate 11–20 mph —/— — —
Strong 21–30 mph –2/— — 10
Severe 31–50 mph –4/— Checked 15
Windstorm 51–74 mph Impossible/–4 Knocked down 18
Hurricane 75–174 mph Impossible/–8 Blown away 20
Tornado 175–300 mph Impossible/impossible Blown away 30
Checked: Creatures are unable to move forward against the force of the wind. Flying creatures are
blown back 1d6×5 feet.
Knocked Down: Creatures are knocked prone by the force of the wind. Flying creatures are instead
blown back 1d6×10 feet.
Blown Away: Creatures on the ground are knocked prone and rolled 1d4×10 feet, taking 1d4
points of nonlethal damage per 10 feet. Flying creatures are blown back 2d6×10 feet and take
2d6 points of nonlethal damage due to battering and buffeting.
224
Combat
Hurricane-Force Wind: All flames are extinguished. Ranged
attacks are impossible (except with siege weapons, which
have a –8 penalty on attack rolls). Listen checks are
impossible: All characters can hear is the roaring of the
wind. Hurricane-force winds often fell trees.
Tornado: All flames are extinguished. All ranged attacks are
impossible (even with siege weapons), as are Listen checks.
Instead of being blown away (see Table: Wind Effects),
characters in close proximity to a tornado who fail their
Fortitude saves are sucked toward the tornado. Those who
come in contact with the actual funnel cloud are picked up
and whirled around for 1d10 rounds, taking 6d8 points of
damage per round, before being violently expelled (falling
damage may apply). While a tornado’s rotational speed can
be as great as 300 mph, the funnel itself moves forward
at an average of 30 mph (roughly 250 feet per round). A
tornado uproots trees, destroys buildings and causes other
similar forms of major destruction.
Condition
Summary
Blinded: The character cannot see. He takes a -2 penalty
to Armor Class, loses his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any),
moves at half speed, and takes a -4 penalty on Search checks
and on most Strength- and Dexterity-based skill checks.
All checks and activities that rely on vision (such as reading
and Spot checks) automatically fail. All opponents are
considered to have total concealment (50% miss chance)
to the blinded character. Characters who remain blinded
for a long time grow accustomed to these drawbacks and
can overcome some of them.
Cowering: The character is frozen in fear and can take
no actions. A cowering character takes a –2 penalty to
Defence.
Dazed: The creature is unable to act normally. A dazed
creature can take no actions but can still Dodge and
Parry.
A dazed condition typically lasts one round.
Dazzled: The creature is unable to see well because of
over-stimulation of the eyes. A dazzled creature takes a –1
penalty on attack rolls, Search checks and Spot checks.
Deafened: A deafened character cannot hear. He takes a
–4 penalty on initiative checks, automatically fails Listen
checks and has a 20% chance of spell failure when casting
spells with verbal components. Characters who remain
deafened for a long time grow accustomed to these
drawbacks and can overcome some of them.
Disabled: A character with zero hit points or one who has
negative hit points but has become stable and conscious,
is disabled. A disabled character may take a single move
action or standard action each round (but not both, nor can
he take full-round actions). He moves at half speed. Move
actions do not risk further injury but standard actions (or
any other action the DM deems strenuous, including some
free actions such as casting a quickened spell) deals one
point of damage after the completion of the act. Unless
the action increases the disabled character’s hit points, he is
now in negative hit points and dying.
A disabled character with negative hit points recovers hit
points naturally if he is being helped. Otherwise, he has
a 10% chance of recovering hit points naturally (starting
with that day); otherwise, he loses one hit point per day.
Once an unaided character starts recovering hit points
naturally, he is no longer in danger of losing hit points
(even if his current hit points are negative).
Dying: A dying character is unconscious and near death.
He has –1 to –9 current hit points. A dying character
can take no actions and is unconscious. At the end
of each round (starting with the round in which the
character dropped below zero hit points), the character
rolls d% to see whether he becomes stable. He has a 10%
chance of becoming stable. If he does not stabilise, he
loses one hit point. If a dying character reaches –10 hit
points, he is dead.
Entangled: The character is ensnared. Being entangled
impedes movement, but does not entirely prevent it
unless the bonds are anchored to an immobile object or
tethered by an opposing force. An entangled creature
moves at half speed, cannot run or charge and takes a –2
penalty on all attack rolls and a –4 penalty to Dexterity.
An entangled character who attempts to cast a spell must
make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the spell’s level)
or lose the spell.
225
Combat
Exhausted: An exhausted character moves at half speed
and takes a –6 penalty to Strength and Dexterity. After
one hour of complete rest, an exhausted character becomes
fatigued. A fatigued character becomes exhausted by doing
something else that would normally cause fatigue.
Fatigued: A fatigued character can neither run nor charge
and takes a –2 penalty to Strength and Dexterity. Anything
that would normally cause fatigue causes the fatigued
character to become exhausted. After eight hours of
complete rest, fatigued characters are no longer fatigued.
Frightened: A frightened creature flees from the source
of its fear as best it can. If unable to flee, it may fight. A
frightened creature takes a –2 penalty on all attack rolls,
saving throws, skill checks and ability checks.
Frightened is like shaken, except that the creature must flee
if possible. Panicked is a more extreme state of fear.
Nauseated: The character experiences stomach distress.
Nauseated creatures are unable to attack, cast spells,
concentrate on spells or do anything else that require
attention. The only action such a character can take is a
single move action per turn.
Panicked: A panicked creature must drop anything it
holds and flee at top speed from the source of its fear, as
well as any other dangers it encounters, along a random
path. It can not take any other actions. In addition, the
creature takes a –2 penalty on all saving throws, skill checks
and ability checks. If cornered, a panicked creature cowers
and does not attack, typically using the total defence action
in combat. A panicked creature can use special abilities,
including spells, to flee; indeed, the creature must use such
means if they are the only way to escape.
Panicked is a more extreme state of fear than shaken or
frightened.
Pinned: The character is held immobile (but not helpless)
in a grapple.
Prone: The character is on the ground. An attacker who is
prone has a –4 penalty on melee attack rolls and cannot use
a ranged weapon (except for a crossbow). A defender who
is prone gains a +4 bonus to Defence against ranged attacks
but takes a –4 penalty to Defence against melee attacks.
Standing up is a move-equivalent action that provokes an
attack of opportunity.
Shaken: A shaken character takes a –2 penalty on attack
rolls, saving throws, skill checks and ability checks.
Shaken is a less severe state of fear than frightened or
panicked.
Sickened: The character takes a –2 penalty on all attack
rolls, weapon damage rolls, saving throws, skill checks and
ability checks.
Stable: A character who was dying but who has stopped
losing hit points and still has negative hit points is stable.
The character is no longer dying but he is still unconscious.
If the character has become stable because of aid from
another character (such as a Heal check or magical healing),
he no longer loses hit points. He has a 10% chance each
hour of becoming conscious and disabled (even though his
hit points are still negative).
If the character became stable on his own and has not had
help, he is still at risk of losing hit points. Each hour, he
has a 10% chance of becoming conscious and disabled.
Otherwise he loses one hit point.
Staggered: A character whose nonlethal damage exactly
equals his current hit points is staggered. A staggered
character may take a single move action or standard action
each round (but not both, nor can he take full-round
actions).
A character whose current hit points exceed his
nonlethal damage is no longer staggered; a character
whose nonlethal damage exceeds his hit points becomes
unconscious.
Stunned: A stunned creature drops everything he is
holding, cannot take actions and cannot Dodge
or Parry.
Unconscious: The character is knocked out
and helpless. Unconsciousness can result from
having current hit points between –1 and –9 or
from nonlethal damage in excess of current
hit points.


Sorcery Knowledge and Power
‘Because blood aids great sorcery!’ thundered Xaltotun,
in a voice that made the rocks quiver. A lurid nimbus
played about his awful head. ‘Because no wizard wastes
his strength thoughtlessly. Because I would conserve
my powers for the great days to be, rather than employ
them in a hill-country brawl. But now, by Set, I shall
loose them to the uttermost! Watch, dog of Asura,
false priest of an outworn god, and see a sight that shall
blast your reason for evermore!’
– The Hour of the Dragon
227
Sorcery
Power Points
All creatures have a certain amount of magical power
flowing through them simply because they are alive.
Sorcerers, who are usually but not always members of the
scholar class, have learned to activate this magical power
both in themselves and by draining the life force from
others, either through sacrifice or some other means. Those
who are sufficiently knowledgeable can use this power to
create a variety of magical effects.
Gaining and Losing
Power Points
When a sorcerer’s Power Points are higher than his base
Power Points for any reason, they gradually begin to revert
back to his base Power Points. Each hour that passes will
cause the sorcerer’s Power Point score to fall by one until it
reaches his base Power Points again.
Power points are reduced whenever a sorcerer
casts a spell, or sometimes if he is the victim of
certain magical attacks. In addition,
if the sorcerer is ever reduced below one hit point by
any means, his Power Points are also immediately
reduced to zero. He cannot regain Power Points until
he has been brought back to one hit point or above
by some means.
A sorcerer can gain Power Points directly
from the bodies of other living creatures,
by sacrificing them or draining the life force
out of their still-living bodies – see Sacrifices
and Energy Drains overleaf.
If the sorcerer rests, he can regain Power
Points that he has lost for any reason, up to
his base Power Points as usual. One Power
Point is regained per full two hours of rest.
A group of followers can help a
sorcerer gain Power Points by
assisting him with a ritual – see
Power Rituals ooverleaf.
What is a Sorcerer?
In game terms, a sorcerer is any character who has learned at least one sorcery style as a class feature of the
scholar or temptress class or who has gained partial access to at least one sorcery style as a result of taking the
Dabbler feat. This is the definition used throughout this chapter.
Note that a scholar who always elects to choose a bonus feat instead of a sorcery style is not regarded as a
sorcerer, unless of course he selects the Dabbler feat.
Of course, public perception of who is and is not a sorcerer may be very different. A worthy priest of Ibis
(scholar class) who has spent years learning the Counterspells sorcery style may technically be a sorcerer
according to these rules (and a powerful one at that) but the members of his congregation will certainly not
consider him to be so. Doubtless, after all, he has been granted divine powers to help fight Ibis’s old enemy
Set. That, of course, is not sorcery – not in the popular perception. On the other hand, a dilettante noble
who dabbles even slightly in the Summoning sorcery style may find himself hounded out of town for his foul
magic, though his actual knowledge of sorcery may be far more limited than the priest’s.
Each scholar starts out with four base Power Points, adjusted up or down by his Wisdom modifier (if any) and
by any bonuses for class level. (If a sorcerer’s Wisdom modifier increases, such as when he increases his Wisdom
ability score by advancing in level, his base Power Points also increase.) Other characters who learn a small
amount of sorcery through whatever means gain a mere 2 + Wisdom modifier Power Points for use.
These are the standard Power Points a sorcerer has available, assuming there are no special circumstances.
This number may increase or decrease, usually depending on the magic the sorcerer casts, whether he loses
or wins magical contests with other sorcerers, whether he ingests certain drugs and whether he sacrifices
other creatures. The absolute maximum Power Points a character may have is equal to double his base Power
Points unless otherwise specified.
228
Sorcery
Sacrifices and
Energy Drains
If a sorcerer sacrifices a creature by coup de grace, the
sorcerer may gain power based on the hit points the creature
had before being dealt damage by the coup de grace.
Sacrifice Hit Points per Power Point
Animal 16 HP/1PP
Sacred Animal 8 HP/1 PP
Ordinary Person 8 HP/1 PP
Virgin Sacrifice 4 HP/1 PP
Ritually Prepared
Virgin Sacrifice
3 HP/1 PP
Perfect Offering 2 HP/1 PP
Ritual Perfect Offering 1 HP/1 PP
A sacred animal is one associated with a particular God
or with the enemies of that god. For example, the bull
is sacred to Anu, the Shemite sky-god. A sacrificed bull
would give twice the normal Power Points if sacrificed by a
priest of Anu or by a sorcerer who is opposed to Anu and
wishes to mock the god’s power.
To qualify as a virgin sacrifice, the victim must be not only
physically be a virgin, but must also be free of Corruption.
A ritually prepared virgin sacrifice must not only be a
virgin but must be bathed and anointed and purified and
must be wholly conscious and aware when the sacrifice
takes place. A perfect offering is a virgin sacrifice that is,
for some reason, particularly pleasing to the entities that
are being propitiated – if a particular demon has a taste
for blonde, blue-eyed girls from Brythunia, then those
are perfect offerings to that demon. Targets of the Rule of
Obsession also count as perfect offerings.
One can increase this amount by selecting Ritual Sacrifice
and other feats; see Chapter 6: Tricks of Sword and
Sorcery. These feats allow the sorcerer to move down
the table to better rewards. For example, a sorcerer
would normally get one Power Point per eight hit
points when sacrificing an ordinary slave. With
the Ritual Sacrifice feat, though, he may move
one step down the table to the next row,
which gives one Power Point
per four hit points. It is
always possible to sacrifice
a creature to a specific entity with which you have some
kind of pact, in which case it gains the Power Points
instead of the sorcerer.
If a sorcerer has a person helpless and under his power, the
sorcerer may place his hand against his victim’s skin and
drain 1d4 Power Points from him as a full-round action.
If the victim is a sorcerer, this is removed from his usual
Power Points. If he is not a sorcerer, this drain causes him
2d6 Wisdom damage and he may not be drained again in
this way until his Wisdom has returned to normal.
Power Rituals
A sorcerer may also gain Power Points by being at the
centre of a large group ritual dedicated to granting him
magical energy.
At least 10 celebrants must be involved. Each must
have at least one rank in any Perform skill. At least
20% of the celebrants must have one or more ranks in
Perform (ritual).
A power ritual takes at least one hour, during which time
neither the celebrants nor the sorcerer can perform other
actions, including sorcery. Each of the celebrants makes a
Perform check, which must be Perform (ritual) for at least
20% of the celebrants. It is usual for the celebrants to take
10 on this check. The Games Master cross-references the
average check result for the celebrants with the number
of celebrants on the Power Rituals table to determine
how many Power Points per hour the sorcerer gains
from the power ritual.
A power ritual that continues for more than one hour
allows the sorcerer to gain additional Power Points each
additional hour.
If desired, two or more sorcerers can split the Power Points
gained from a Power Ritual in any manner on which they
can mutually agree.
Power Rituals (Power
Points Gained per Hour)
Number of
Celebrants
Average Check Result
Less
than 10 10–14 15–19 20–24 25+
10–19 0 1 2 3 4
20–49 0 2 4 6 8
50–99 0 3 6 9 12
100+ 0 4 8 12 16
229
Sorcery
Pushing It
It is possible, though not always advisable, for a sorcerer
to reduce his Power Points below zero due as a result of an
especially powerful piece of magic.
A sorcerer’s Power Points can be reduced to a negative
number equal to his base Power Points. For example, a
sorcerer with a base Power Point score of seven could reduce
his Power Points as low as –7. It is simply not possible to go
below this number.
A sorcerer whose Power Points are below zero may regain
them by rest, but only at the rate of one Power Point per
full day of rest, until he is back at zero once again at which
point the usual rapid restoration of Power Points begins.
He may also regain them more quickly by the usual means
of sacrifice, use of black lotus and so forth.
While his Power Points are below zero, the sorcerer may
not cast any further spells (even if he could theoretically
reduce his Power Points still further) and is considered
to be fatigued (cannot run or charge, –2 to Strength and
Dexterity) until his Power Points are somehow restored to
zero or above once more.
The R ules
of Sorcery
Though sorcery often seems mysterious to those who do
not practice it, certain patterns can be gleaned from the
descriptions given by Conan and his allies.
The Rule of Success
As Conan puts it, ‘Sorcery thrives
on success, not on failure.’
Whenever a sorcerer is, broadly
speaking, succeeding at what he
is doing when in a high-stress
situation (particularly combat), he
becomes still more effective at what
he is doing. At its most powerful,
this can lead to a dreadful chain
reaction that can make sorcerers
almost unstoppable.
Every round in which a sorcerer
successfully slays at least one
opponent, either by sorcerous
means or by combat, he gains a
morale bonus to all attack
rolls and magic attack
rolls made until the end of the round after the one in
which he killed his opponent(s). This bonus can be read
on the table to the bottom-left of this page.
The bonus is immediately cancelled if the sorcerer loses
any hit points during the round following the actions that
gave him the bonus.
Note that these benefi ts are in addition to any bonus Power
Points the sorcerer may gain for having sacrificed one or
more of his kills.
Furthermore, the rule of success makes it far easier for a
sorcerer to repeat a successful spell. If he ever casts a spell
that succeeds in all that it was intended to do, he may cast
the same spell the following round at half the previous
Power Point cost (rounded down) for the spell. This even
affects spells with a casting time of greater than one round,
so long as the spell is re-cast within one round of the end
of the previous casting. A further success halves the Power
Point cost again for the next casting, to a minimum Power
Point cost of one.
For example, an awful rite of the were-beast only ever affects
a single victim. Thus, any time a target fails his saving
throw, it can be assumed that the spell is successful and
the next casting expends only four Power Points if cast
immediately after the first use of the spell.
The Games Master always has the final say as to whether
a particular spell succeeds sufficiently well to grant this
special bonus.
Both the magic attack bonus and the reduced Power
Point cost from the Rule of Success can apply
simultaneously, if applicable.
The Rule of
Impermanence
Almost every spell or magic item is limited in
duration. If nothing else, all sorcerous creations
will cease functioning the moment the
sorcerer who created them is killed, unless
noted otherwise.
Any time a sorcerer is reduced below zero
hit points, he must make a separate
Will saving throw (DC 25) for
each of his sorcerous creations. If
Enemies
Killed
Morale
Bonus
1 +1
2–4 +2
5–9 +3
10–19 +4
20–49 +5
50–99 +6
100–199 +7
200–499 +8
500–999 +9
1000+ +10
230
Sorcery
this is failed, the creation ceases functioning. Spells simply
stop working. Magic items crumble into dust or shatter
into tiny fragments, becoming not only non-magical
but also non-existent.
Furthermore, if a sorcerer is killed or left for dead (see
page 75), all his sorcerous creations immediately cease to
function, as above, with no chance of being saved.
The Rule of Defence
Sorcerers generally have plenty of close-range magic ideal
for counter-attacks to ensure that any who attempt to kill
them risk destruction themselves.
Any character who knows a spell so labelled is able to
unleash a defensive blast, as follows, as a last-resort counterattack:
* A defensive blast is an Immediate Action and can be
taken at any time, as long as the sorcerer is not flatfooted.
* All the sorcerer’s current Power Points are
expended.
* The defensive blast is provoked only
if the sorcerer is attacked in some
fashion by a foe.
* Each Sorcery style has its own form of defensive blast.
A scholar character gets the defensive blast for his first
Sorcery style for free; Defensive Blasts for other styles
that the sorcerer picks up later must be purchased
separately as Advanced Spells. Temptresses who learn
sorcery as their secret art do not learn the defensive
blast for free and must acquire it as an advanced spell.
The Rule of Obsession
For most sorcerers, magic is an obsession that drives
them on, constantly forcing them to seek out new
sources of knowledge and new forms of power. Diluting
that obsession by any means, whether by falling in love,
pursuing a new career or demonstrating overmuch loyalty
to a cause other than one’s own sorcerous masters, tends to
weaken a sorcerer’s magic considerably. However, if he can
somehow draw the source of the distraction into himself
– for example, by sacrificing his loved one, succeeding at
a major test in a new profession or rising to the top of a
non-sorcerous organisation only to entice all its members
to mass sacrifice – his power is significantly boosted.
In effect, the rule of obsession is played out somewhat like
a minor quest or sub-plot alongside the main campaign.
A sorcerer can always declare himself obsessed with
something other than sorcery. If he does so, his base Power
Points are reduced by –1 to –3, depending on the strength
of the obsession. The sorcerer may only regain these points
– with interest – by somehow drawing the object of the
obsession into himself. Until that point, his base Power
Points will remain penalised, though of course his current
Power Points can still go up and down as usual. Maximum
Power Points are calculated from the sorcerer’s new base
Power Points.
The Games Master may also rule that a sorcerer is obsessed,
though he should do so with care. Usually the only two
possible reasons for doing so are as follows:
* The sorcerer acquires an Allegiance (see page 81) to
someone or some group other than his own sorcerous
master or masters, or some demon or other.
* The sorcerer acquires more levels of some other class
than he has levels of scholar.
On the other hand, it is said that observers can tell when
someone is obsessed with something and that the obsessed
usually cannot tell. This being the case, the Games Master
is certainly permitted to make statements along the lines
He felt an urge to hasten, not a mere blind panic, but an
instinct of peril growing behind his back. He said nothing
to Yasmina, and she seemed content to nestle her dark
head against his arching breast and find security in the
clasp of his iron arms. He paused an instant on the brink
of the chasm, frowning down. The haze which danced in
the gorge was no longer rose-hued and sparkling. It was
smoky, dim, ghostly, like the life-tide that flickered
thinly in a wounded man. The thought came vaguely to
Conan that the spells of magicians were more closely
bound to their personal beings than were the actions of
common men to the actors.
– The People of the Black Circle
231
Sorcery
of ‘You are clearly obsessed with hunting this particular
individual down – if this continues, I will certainly rule
you to be Obsessed.’
The Games Master is also always at liberty to veto any
obsession that the player chooses for his character to avoid
abusive or just plain implausible obsessions.
A sorcerer with an obsession can regain his lost one
to three base Power Points and gain a permanent
increase equal to the same amount he originally lost, by
somehow incorporating the essence of the obsession
into himself and his sorcery – a form of symbolic (or in
some cases literal) cannibalism. The precise nature of this
incorporation depends on the obsession.
The key to understanding the Rule of Obsession is that in
essence the sorcerer is ‘gambling’ between one and three
permanent base Power Points.
Generally speaking, a sorcerer should not be permitted
more than one obsession per year.
The Rule of Obsession never applies to a sorcerer who
gets his power from the Dabbler feat. He is unaffected
by the rule of obsession, as he is by definition not
obsessed with sorcery but simply toying with its
dark powers.
Example: Ankh-af-na-Khonsu is a Stygian sorcerer of
some considerable repute but has found himself drawn to the
service of the highly charismatic King of Koth. Ankh-af-na-
Khonsu is a 12th level scholar with a Wisdom of 14, so his
base Power Points are nine and his maximum Power
Points are 27. The sorcerer has an Allegiance (Koth),
which has developed over the years he has spent living
in that land and working directly for the King. The
Games Master decides this to be an obsession worth
two base Power Points, so Ankh-af-na-Khonsu’s
base Power Points are reduced to seven and his
maximum Power Points to 21. The sorcerer
realises he must somehow draw the obsession
back into himself and proposes a plan to the
Games Master. He intends to hypnotise the
King of Koth on a long-term and complete basis,
forcing the unfortunate monarch to tear apart
the kingdom of Koth in a series of futile wars,
punitive taxes and bizarre laws. Eventually,
when the kingdom is on the brink of revolt, the
sorcerer intends to slay and ritually devour the
king and seize power himself. If he succeeds, he
will have drawn both king and country into himself
and he will be in harmony once more. The Games
Master agrees that if he succeeds, his lost two base
Power Points will be returned and he will be
further rewarded with a +2 bonus to his base
Power Points for the increase in power gained by
incorporating his obsession into himself, for a total
of 11 base Power Points and 33 maximum Power
Points. As it turns out, Ankh takes some years to
achieve his aim and by the time he does so he
is 14th level. This would usually give him 10
base Power Points and 40 maximum Power
Points but while reduced he is on eight
base Power Points and 32 maximum
Power Points. Once he has succeeded
in his aims, he will be at 12 base
Power Points and 48 maximum
Power Points.
232
Sorcery
The Rule of the Master
Two of the backgrounds for the scholar class involve the
character being at least partially in thrall to a superior:
acolyte and pact. Any character with one of these
backgrounds, or who later joins a sorcerous society or
learns the demonic pact spell, or who takes on apprentices
of his own, is subject to the Rule of the Master.
The Rule of the Master concerns any character who has
learned sorcery from a more powerful sorcerer or demon,
who is known as the master. His apprentices, coven novices
or other students are known as thralls.
The Rule of the Master has the following effects:
Manipulation: The master of any coven, sorcerous
society or even just an apprentice or two always gains a
+2 circumstance bonus to Bluff and Intimidate checks
targeting any of his thralls and a +1 circumstance bonus to
magic attack rolls against them.
Power Transfer: The master may, at any time, attempt to
remove or grant a number of Power Points to any or all of
his thralls. This requires either physical touch or that the
master has on his person some form of magical link to the
apprentice; see page 237 for full details of magical links.
Once per round as a free action, the master may take up to
five Power Points from any one thrall for his own use, or
grant said thrall up to five Power Points for the thrall’s use.
If desired, the thrall may attempt to resist this by making
a Will saving throw with the DC set by the master’s magic
attack roll. If the master takes or grants more Power Points
than the apprentice’s Intelligence bonus, the apprentice
takes one point of temporary Intelligence damage per
excess point. For example, an apprentice with Intelligence
14 (a +2 modifier) could only transfer two points per
round; transferring five points would inflict three points of
temporary Intelligence damage on the apprentice.
Note: Most masters will ensure they gain some kind of
magical link to the thrall before teaching him a single
spell – perhaps a contract signed in blood or a lock of
hair.
Ritual Spell: The master can perform ritual
spells with his various thralls. Any
spell he knows can be cast in a
ritualistic manner.
The spell’s casting time is
equal to (one hour
+ 10 minutes
per participating thrall) or the spell’s usual casting time,
whichever is greater. Additional incenses, oils, smokepowders
and other accoutrements must be expended, to a
cost of 50 silver pieces per participating thrall. The Power
Point cost of the spell is raised by +2 per participating
thrall, though this may be provided by power transfer (see
above) as usual.
Each thrall who succeeds at a Perform (ritual) check (DC
= 10 + total Power Point cost of casting the spell, including
the +2 increase per participating thrall) grants the master a
+1 bonus to the magic attack roll or skill roll he makes as
part of the spell. For spells with a greater range than touch,
each +1 bonus granted in this way also increases the range
of the spell by +10%.
The Rule of the
Sorcerer’s Soul
The very process of becoming a sorcerer wreaks permanent
changes to the very soul of the arcanist, changes that
other sorcerers and supernatural entities can detect just by
looking at him.
Any sorcerer, magical beast or outsider who can meet the
eyes of a sorcerer (if one can cast an Evil Eye range spell,
one can meet the target’s eyes) can immediately sense
the latter’s sorcerous nature. Furthermore, if he spends a
standard action examining the sorcerer further, he may
make a magic attack roll (opposed by the target’s Will
saving throw) to determine approximately how corrupt and
powerful the sorcerer is, based on the following scales:
Corruption Points Description
0 Uncorrupted
1–3 Mildly Corrupted
4–6 Corrupted
7–9 Totally Corrupted
10+ Diabolical
Current Power Points Description
Less than 1 Drained
1–4 Very Weak
5–8 Weak
9–12 Strong
13–16 Very Strong
17+ Master
A successful magic attack roll made in this manner will
also reveal the sorcerer’s type and subtype. For example,
a character with the Spawn of Dagoth
233
Sorcery
Hill feat will be revealed to another sorcerer as an
outsider (native) if he fails his Will saving throw, while a
character who has become a vampire will be revealed as
undead (augmented humanoid).
Spell Failure
If a sorcerer ever tries to cast a spell in conditions where the
characteristics of the spell cannot be made to conform, the
casting fails and the spell is wasted.
The Spell’s Result
Once a sorcerer knows which creatures (or objects or
areas) are affected and whether those creatures have made
successful saving throws (if any were allowed), he can apply
whatever results a spell entails.
Concentration
To cast a spell, a sorcerer must concentrate. If something
interrupts his concentration while he is casting, he must
make a Concentration check or lose the Power Points
casting the spell would have cost. Furthermore, if the spell
is one that could cause Runaway Magic (see below) the
sorcerer must make a Will saving throw (DC 15), with
failure resulting in Runaway Magic as described on the
next page. The more distracting the interruption and the
higher the Power Point cost of the spell he is trying to cast,
the higher the Concentration DC is. If the sorcerer fails the
check, he loses the spell as if he had cast it to no effect.
Injury: If a sorcerer takes damage while trying to cast a
spell, he must make a Concentration check (DC 10 +
points of damage taken + Power Point cost). If he fails the
check, he loses the Power Points he would have spent to cast
the spell. The interrupting event strikes during spellcasting
if it comes between when a spell is started and when it is
completed. For spells that can be cast in a single action,
this will only happen if the sorcerer is hit with an attack of
opportunity provoked by the act of casting the spell or a
contingent attack such as a readied action.
If a sorcerer is taking continuous damage, such as from
fire or a from a spell, half the damage is considered to
take place while he is casting a spell. The sorcerer must
make a Concentration check (DC 10 + 1/2 the damage
that the continuous source last dealt + Power Point cost
of the spell). If the last damage dealt was the last damage
that the effect could deal, the damage is over and does
not distract the sorcerer.
Repeated damage, such as from being stabbed over and over
by a savage pirate, does not count as continuous damage.
Spell: If a sorcerer is affected by a spell while attempting
to cast a spell of his own, he must make a Concentration
check or lose the Power Point cost. If the spell that affects
him deals damage, the DC is 10 + points of damage + the
Power Point cost of his own spell.
If the spell interferes with a sorcerer or distracts him in
some other way, then the DC is the spell’s saving throw
DC + the Power Point cost of his own spell. For a spell with
no saving throw, use the DC that the spell’s saving throw
would have if a saving throw were allowed – usually the
sorcerer’s magic attack roll.
Grappling or Pinned: The only spells one can cast while
grappling or pinned are those without somatic components
and whose material components (if any) one has in hand.
Even so, the sorcerer must make a Concentration check
(DC 20 + Power Point cost of the spell) or lose the Power
Point cost.
Vigorous Motion: If a sorcerer is riding on a moving
mount, taking a bouncy ride in a wagon, on a small boat
in rough water, below-decks in a storm-tossed ship or
simply being jostled in a similar fashion, he must make
a Concentration check (DC 10 + Power Point cost of the
spell) or lose the Power Point cost.
Violent Motion: If a sorcerer is on a galloping horse,
taking a very rough ride in a wagon, on a small boat
in rapids or in a storm, on deck in a storm-tossed ship
or being tossed roughly about in a similar fashion, he
must make a Concentration check (DC 15 + Power
Point cost of the spell) or lose the Power Point cost.
Violent Weather: A sorcerer must make a
Concentration check if he tries to cast a
spell in violent weather. If he is in a high
wind with blinding rain or sleet, the DC is
5 + Power Point cost of the spell. If he is in
wind-driven hail, dust or debris, the DC is
10 + Power Point cost of the spell. In either
case, the sorcerer loses the Power Point cost
if he fails the Concentration check. If the
weather is caused by a spell, use the rules in
the Spell subsection above.
234
Sorcery
Casting Defensively: If a sorcerer wants to cast a spell
without provoking any attacks of opportunity, he must
make a Concentration check (DC 15 + Power Point cost
of the spell) to succeed. He loses the Power Point cost if
he fails.
Entangled: If a sorcerer wants to cast a spell while entangled
in a net or some similar effect, he must make a DC 15
Concentration check to cast the spell. He loses the Power
Point cost if he fails.
Consequences
of Magic
Any force as powerful as sorcery can have consequences,
some of them quite unintended by its practitioners. This
section covers the two main risks of sorcery: casting a
series of spells that lead to a magical chain reaction and
becoming corrupt or going mad through contact with
demonic entities.
Mighty Spells
and Runaway Magic
Any time a particularly powerful spell is used, there is a
risk that serious, world-wrenching consequences will
result. This is particularly the case with the Summoning
style, which has a real tendency to upset some kind of
magical balance and set powerful, uncontrollable forces
into motion.
All the spells that could potentially cause a runaway magic
result are marked with an asterisk (*) in the Spells table (see
page 239). These are known as mighty spells.
A sorcerer can cast up to one mighty spell per week without
fear of dangerous consequences. Each time he casts a further
mighty spell within seven days of the last one, he must
make a Will saving throw. This Will saving throw starts
out at DC 10 but the DC rises by +5 for each additional
mighty spell cast within the last seven days.
If the Will saving throw is failed, roll 1d20 and
consult the Runaway Magic table. Add the
sorcerer’s Corruption score to the roll,
+1 for each point by which the
Will saving throw was failed.
Runaway Magic
Die Roll Result
1–10 Minor Burnout! The sorcerer’s magical
energies are drained off to a place or person
unknown. He loses 1d4 Power Points. If this
reduces him below zero Power Points, he is
instead reduced to zero Power Points and dealt
1d6 damage to Wisdom.
11–18 Major Burnout! The sorcerer’s magical
energies are drained off to a place or person
unknown. He loses 2d6 Power Points. If this
would reduce him below zero Power Points,
he is instead reduced to zero Power Points
and dealt 1d8 damage to Wisdom and 1d8
damage to Charisma.
19–24 Minor Sorcerous Implosion! Magical energies
tear the sorcerer apart. His Power Points are
reduced to zero and he is dealt 10d6 damage.
25–28 Major Sorcerous Implosion! Magical energies
tear the sorcerer apart. His Power Points are
reduced to zero and he is dealt 15d6 damage.
29–30 Rock the Universe! The sorcerer is killed
outright by the forces that he has released.
An area around him, 1d6 miles in radius, is
devastated by earthquakes, storms, floods,
lightning and meteorites, dealing 20d6
damage to all within the area and reshaping
the landscape as the very Earth itself is
rent and pounded.
31+ Fate Worse Than Death! As for Rock the
Universe (29–30), plus as follows: A sorcerous
rift into the Outer Dark is opened and a
demon from that dread realm pulls the
sorcerer’s soul through the rift, severing the
magical silver cord that binds his soul to his
body. He is eternally damned and his body
is either a lifeless husk or (at the Games
Master’s discretion) inhabited by a minion
of the demon.
Corruption and Insanity
For the amoral sorcerer who has some insight into just
how powerful and dangerous the forces aligned against
humanity are, there is a stark choice between simply giving
in to those forces and giving in to despair or madness at
the recognition that those forces will someday win. Almost
every high-level sorcerer is likely to be either corrupt or
mad, at least to some degree.
235
Sorcery
Insanity only may only affect sorcerers who already have at
least one point of Corruption. Those who have managed
to avoid being corrupted do not yet have the evil insights
that can lead them to insanity if they later reject attempts
to further corrupt them.
Each time an already corrupt sorcerer successfully saves
against Corruption, he must make a second Corruption
saving throw at the same DC as the first. Failure causes
him to become shaken (–2 penalty on attack rolls, saving
throws, skill checks and ability checks) for 1d6 rounds
and gain a permanent, minor insanity as determined
from the list below (or from elsewhere if desired) by the
player and the Games Master,.
A sorcerer who already has a minor insanity and fails a
second insanity saving throw becomes shaken once more,
this time for 3d6 rounds. He also gains a permanent major
insanity, as determined by the player and the Games Master
from the list below.
It is always possible to opt to fail the save against Corruption
if one would prefer to become corrupted rather than mad.
Minor Insanities
Delusion: This is any belief that is not true, for example
that the resurrected giant-kings of Old Stygia are plotting
to overthrow the kingdom of Ophir, or that the Baracha
pirates are a bunch of lovable rogues rather than blackhearted
murderers. The delusion could be a mild form of
paranoia, or simply a complete misunderstanding of one
minor aspect of the way the world works.
Phobia: Choose one suitable phobia, such as snakes, apes,
insects, spiders or plant creatures. Whenever the character
is in the presence of a creature that could trigger the phobia,
he must make a Will saving throw (DC 20) or be panicked
(–2 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks and
ability checks, must flee the cause of the panic) until he can
no longer see it.
Sleeplessness: The character lies awake for several hours
every night, unable to sleep or find rest. He must make a
Fortitude saving throw (DC 15) every morning or wake up
fatigued (–2 to Strength and Dexterity, cannot run).
Major Insanities
Paranoia: This is similar to delusions but far more severe.
The sorcerer believes in a number of highly personalised
delusions, all of them relating to persecution and treachery.
Voices: The character constantly hears voices, often
insistently demanding that he perform particular
actions. Any time he is in a stressful situation (at
the Games Master’s discretion) he must make a Will saving
throw (DC 20) or be controlled by the Games Master for
1D6 rounds, as he does the bidding of the voices.
Hallucinations: The character sees objects that are not there
and sees objects that are there as distorted. He suffers a
constant penalty of –2 to Spot and Search checks and to all
attack rolls, whether melee or ranged.
Recovering from Insanity
A character who does not practice any sorcery or have
contact with Corrupting influences for three months may
make a Will saving throw (DC 15 for minor insanity, DC
20 for major insanity) at the end of that time to completely
recover from his insanity. A sorcerer may only recover from
one insanity per three month hiatus.
Spells and
Spellcasting
Sorcerers in Hyboria are limited by their strength of
will and command of magic. In Conan the Roleplaying
Game, this translates into their Power Points. Most spells
have several prerequisites, in much the same way that
feats do – a sorcerer must meet the prerequisites before
learning the spell.
Many spells require either a magic attack roll or a skill
check as part of the casting process. This is detailed as
part of the entry for each spell.
Spell Descriptions
The description of each spell is presented in a standard
format. Each category of information is explained and
defined below.
Name
The first line of every spell description
gives the name by which the spell is generally
known.
Power Point Cost
As described above, each spell in Conan
the Roleplaying Game has a Power
Point cost that must be paid by the
sorcerer who wishes to cast it.
236
Sorcery
Components
A spell’s components are what one must do or possess
to cast the spell. The Components entry in a spell
description includes abbreviations that list the spell’s
components. Specifics for material, focus and Experience
Point components are given at the end of the descriptive
text. Usually done need not worry about components
but when one cannot use a component for some reason
or when a material or focus component is expensive, the
components become important.
Verbal (V): A verbal component is a spoken incantation.
To provide a verbal component, the sorcerer must be
able to speak in a strong voice. A gag or some other
obstruction to speaking spoils the incantation and thus
the spell. A spellcaster who has been deafened has a 20%
chance of spoiling any spell with a verbal component that
he tries to cast.
Somatic (S): A somatic component is a measured and
precise movement of the hand. A sorcerer must have a
hand free to provide a somatic component.
Material (M): A material component is one or more
physical substances or objects that are annihilated by the
spell energies in the casting process. Unless a cost is given for
a material component, the cost is negligible. Do not bother
to keep track of material components with negligible cost.
These components may be assumed to be in the sorcerer’s
spell component pouch (if he has it).
Focus (F): A focus component is a prop of some sort.
Unlike a material component, a focus is not consumed
when the spell is cast and can be reused. As with material
components, the cost for a focus is negligible unless a price
is given. Assume that focus components of negligible cost
are in the sorcerer’s spell component pouch.
XP Cost (XP): Some powerful spells entail an Experience
Point cost to the caster. No spell can restore the Experience
Points lost in this manner. A sorcerer cannot spend so
many Experience Points that he loses a level, so he
cannot cast the spell unless he has enough Experience
Points to spare. However, he may, on gaining enough
Experience Points to attain a new level, use those
Experience Points for casting a spell
rather than keeping them and
advancing a level. Experience
points are expended when
a spell is cast, whether
or not the casting
succeeds.
Casting Time
Most spells have a casting time of one standard action.
Some others take a different amount of time.
A spell that takes one round to cast is a full-round action. It
comes into effect just before the beginning of the sorcerer’s
turn in the round after he begins casting the spell. He then
acts normally after the spell is completed.
A spell that takes one minute to cast comes into effect
just before the caster’s turn one minute later; for each of
those 10 rounds, the sorcerer is casts a spell as a full-round
action as noted above for one-round casting times. These
actions must be consecutive and uninterrupted or the
spell automatically fails.
When a sorcerer begins a spell that takes one round or
longer to cast, he must continue his concentration from
the current round to just before his turn in the next round,
at least. If he loses concentration before the casting is
complete, he loses the Power Point cost.
A spell with a casting time of one free action does not count
against the sorcerer’s normal limit of one spell per round.
However, he may cast such a spell only once per round.
Casting a spell with a casting time of one free action does
not provoke attacks of opportunity.
A sorcerer makes all pertinent decisions about a spell
(range, target, area, effect, version and so forth) when the
spell comes into effect.
Spell Range
A spell’s range indicates how far from the caster it can reach,
as defined in the Range entry of the spell description. A
spell’s range is the maximum distance from the caster that
the spell’s effect can occur, as well as the maximum distance
at which he can designate the spell’s point of origin. If any
portion of the spell’s area would extend beyond this range,
that area is wasted. Standard ranges include the following:
Personal: The spell affects only the caster.
Touch: The caster must touch a creature or object to affect
it. A touch spell that deals damage can score a critical hit
just as a weapon can. A touch spell threatens a critical
hit on a natural roll of 20 and deals double damage on a
successful critical hit. Some touch spells allow a sorcerer
to touch multiple targets. He can touch as many willing
targets as he can reach as part of the casting but all targets
of the spell must be touched in the same round that the
caster finishes casting the spell.
237
Sorcery
Close: The spell reaches as far as 25 feet away from the
caster. The maximum range increases by five feet for every
two full sorcerer levels.
Medium: The spell reaches as far as 100 feet + 10 feet per
sorcerer level.
Long: The spell reaches as far as 400 feet + 40 feet per
sorcerer level.
The Evil Eye: Some spells require the sorcerer to meet the
target’s eyes. This can affect a target within 30 ft. The caster
simply chooses a target within range and that opponent
must attempt a saving throw. If the target has already
specified that he is averting his eyes from the sorcerer’s face
by some means, the target has a 50% chance of not having
to make a saving throw. In this case the sorcerer gains onehalf
concealment against the target, so any attack the target
makes against the sorcerer has a 20% miss chance.
A target who has specified that he has shut his eyes or
turned his back on the caster or is wearing a blindfold
does not need to make a saving throw. He is immune to
evil eye spells and other gaze attacks. The sorcerer gains
total concealment against the target as if the sorcerer were
invisible. Thus, any attack the target makes against the
sorcerer has a 50% miss chance and the opponent cannot
use sight to target attacks.
If visibility is limited (by dim lighting, a fog or the like)
so that it results in concealment, there is a percentage
chance equal to the normal miss chance for that amount of
concealment that the target will not need to make a saving
throw. This chance is not cumulative with chances to avoid
the evil eye but instead is rolled separately.
If the target is able to avoid meeting the sorcerer’s gaze
during the round the spell is cast, the evil eye spell has no
effect.
Unlimited: The spell reaches anywhere in the world.
Magical Link: Anyone with even a vague, half-mythical
understanding of sorcery – and that includes almost
everyone in the Hyborian Age – knows of several highly
sinister methods a sorcerer has of sending a spell out to
his victim. The sorcerer uses an item that has an intimate
connection with the victim, such as a fragment of his
clothing, a discarded sandal, a nail-clipping or lock of hair
or some bodily fluid or other. Whatever the method used,
this is known as the magical link
If a magical link is available, the sorcerer may use certain
spells (those with a range listed as ‘magical link’) against
the victim from any range, even if he is unable to see the
victim. The sorcerer must hold the magical link in his
hand when casting the spell to gain these benefits and
retain it about his person for the duration of the spell or
the spell instantly ends.
Range Expressed in Feet: Some spells have no standard
range category, just a range expressed in feet.
Spell Duration
A spell’s Duration entry indicates how long the magical
energy of the spell lasts.
Timed Durations: Many durations are measured in
rounds, minutes, hours or some other increment. When
the time is up, the magic goes away and the spell ends. If
a spell’s duration is variable, the duration is rolled secretly.
The sorcerer does not know how long the spell will last.
Instantaneous: The spell energy comes and goes the
instant the spell is cast, though the consequences might
be long-lasting.
Permanent: The energy remains as long as the effect does.
Mortal: Due to the Law of Impermanence, permanent
effects are almost impossible for most sorcerers to create.
Long-lasting spells instead work for a duration of
‘mortal’. This lasts for as long as the sorcerer himself is
alive, though the Law of Impermanence may affect it as
usual if he is badly injured.
Concentration: The spell lasts as long as the caster
concentrates on it. Concentrating to maintain a
spell is a standard action that does not provoke
attacks of opportunity. Anything that could
break the caster’s concentration when casting
a spell can also break his concentration while
he is maintaining one, causing the spell to end.
A sorcerer cannot cast a spell while
concentrating on another one. Sometimes a
spell lasts for a short time after the caster
ceases concentrating.
Power Points: A spell with a
duration of Power Points will last
as long as the sorcerer continues to
pay the Power Point cost
as required.
238
Sorcery
Discharge: Occasionally a spell lasts for a set duration or
until triggered or discharged.
(D) Dismissible: If the Duration line ends with ‘(D),’ the
spell can be dismissed at will. The caster must be within
range of the spell’s effect and must speak words of dismissal,
which are usually a modified form of the spell’s verbal
component. If the spell has no verbal component, the
sorcerer can dismiss the effect with a gesture. Dismissing
a spell is a standard action that does not provoke attacks
of opportunity.
A spell that depends on concentration is dismissible by its
very nature. Dismissing it does not take an action, since all
a sorcerer has to do to end the spell is to stop concentrating
on his turn.
Subjects, Effects and Areas: If a spell affects creatures
directly, the result travels with the subjects for the spell’s
duration. If the spell creates an effect, the effect lasts for
the duration. The effect might move or remain still. Such
an effect can be destroyed prior to when its duration
ends. If the spell affects an area, the spell stays within
that area for its duration.
Creatures become subject to a spell when they enter an
affected area and are no longer subject to it when they leave.
Touch Spells and Holding the Charge: In most cases, if
a sorcerer does not discharge a touch spell on the round
he casts it, he can hold the charge (postpone the discharge
of the spell) indefinitely. The sorcerer can make touch
attacks round after round. If he casts another spell, the
touch spell dissipates.
Some touch spells allow the caster to touch multiple targets
as part of the spell. He cannot hold the charge of such a
spell; he must touch all targets of the spell in the same
round that he finishes casting the spell.
The Magic Attack Roll
A magic attack roll is made whenever a sorcerer
attempts to injure another with his magic and in
most cases when he attempts to compel another. It
is made as follows:
1D20 +
MAGIC ATTACK BONUS +
CHARISMA MODIFIER
In most cases this is opposed by the victim’s relevant saving
throw. If a spell has multiple targets, the same Magic Attack
roll is used for all of them.
Overcharging a Spell
A sorcerer can put more of his power into a spell than
normal. For every extra Power Point spent on a spell, the
sorcerer gets a +1 bonus to his magic attack roll.



Codes of Honour
Generally speaking, deciding what is moral and what
immoral is up to the individual. However, certain
dark, corrupting forces can turn humans into
cowed slaves or gibbering madmen. Holding to a code of
honour, however primitive, is one way by which heroes can
avoid such a fate.
The most common codes of honour are given over the page.
At the Games Master’s discretion, variant codes of honour
may be permitted but it is strongly recommended that
they be based on those given here. For example, the Games
Master may agree with a player that a variant barbaric code
of honour is better suited to the Vanir character he wishes
to play, given that the standard barbaric code of honour is
based more on Cimmerian morality.
However, there should be no ‘thief code of honour’ or ‘pirate
code of honour.’ As portrayed in the Conan stories, most
such characters are inherently without honour, though they
may occasionally feign honour for their own purposes. Any
who do have a code of honour have retained a civilised or
barbaric code from their earlier lives but they are in the
minority and most lose even that honour sooner or later.
Conan is a rarity, a barbarian so strong-willed he upholds his
honour even when among the most treacherous and amoral
rogues and corsairs.
Benefits of a
Code of Honour
Any character can begin the game with a code of honour
at no cost. Any character with a code of honour gains
a +3 morale bonus on all Will saving throws, rising
to +6 if the Will saving throw is against Corruption
(see page 82). Furthermore, he gains a +2 bonus to
Reputation (also on page 82).
However, living by any code of honour requires certain
restrictions on what the character can and cannot do
and breaking a code of honour usually means
the loss of its benefits forever.
Barbaric Code
of Honour
This is Conan’s style of morality, such as it is.
The barbaric code of honour is common
only in lands with harsh climates, such as
Cimmeria, Vanaheim and Asgard in the
north and Ghulistan in the east. It
is also found among some of the
Shemites and Kozaks who live
in the great deserts that stretch
over many of the southern and
eastern lands. Here
78
Classes
Starting Equipment by Character Class
Class
Starting
Budget Starting Equipment Packages (Choose One)*
Barbarian 100 +
10d6 sp
Broadsword, dagger,
loincloth, belt pouch,
sandals, belt
Bow (any +0) and 20 arrows,
arming sword or cutlass,
poniard, loincloth, belt pouch,
sandals, belt
Bow (any, up to +2) and 20
arrows, battleaxe or war spear or
war club, leather jerkin, steel cap,
loincloth, belt pouch, sandals or
feathered head-dress, belt
Borderer 150 +
10d6 sp
Arming sword, axe, hunting
bow (+0), 20 arrows, dagger,
quilted jerkin, cloak, doublet
and hose, work boots, shirt
and braes, hood, costrel,
herbalist’s kit, belt pouch, kit
bag, belt
Short sword, battleaxe, hunting
bow (+0), 20 arrows, dagger,
quilted jerkin, steel cap, cloak,
doublet and hose, work boots,
shirt and braes, hood, costrel,
herbalist’s kit, belt pouch, kit
bag, belt
Bow (any, up to +2) and 40
arrows, short sword, battleaxe,
leather jerkin, dagger, cloak,
doublet and hose, work boots,
shirt and braes, hood, costrel,
herbalist’s kit, belt pouch, kit bag,
belt
Noble 500 +
10d6 sp
Arming sword, dagger, steel
cap, mail shirt, buckler,
doublet and hose, riding
boots, shirt and braes, belt
pouch, belt
Arming sword, dagger, buckler,
noble’s outfit (all of noble
quality, i.e. cost is 50 times
normal: coat, hat, doublet and
hose, riding boots, shirt and
braes, belt pouch, knight’s belt)
Short sword, light lance, steel
cap, brigandine coat, large shield,
riding horse, riding saddle,
poniard, warhammer, bow (any
+0), 20 arrows, doublet and hose,
riding boots, shirt and braes,
cloak, hood, costrel, belt pouch,
knight’s belt
Nomad 150 +
10d6 sp
Riding horse, riding saddle,
scimitar, hunting bow,
20 arrows, dagger, belt,
saddlebags, robes, sandals
Riding camel, riding saddle,
scimitar, bow (any, up to
+1), 40 arrows, dagger, belt,
saddlebags, robes, sandals
Riding horse, riding saddle, light
lance, short sword, bow (any, up
to +1), 40 arrows, dagger, belt,
saddlebags, robes, sandals
Pirate 100 +
10d6 sp
Arming sword, silk breeks,
poniard, buckler, leather
jerkin, sling and 10 bullets
Bow (any, up to +5) and 20
arrows, war spear or war club,
loincloth, belt pouch, belt,
feathered head-dress
Cutlass, silk breeks, dagger, looted
fancy coat and riding boots (coat
and boots of good merchant
quality, i.e. cost is 10 times
normal), belt, belt pouch
Scholar 100 +
10d6 sp
Dagger, doublet and hose,
work boots, shirt and braes,
cloak, hood, costrel, spell
component pouch, belt
pouch, belt, quill, ink,
parchment, herbalist’s kit,
one dose yellow lotus resin
Stiletto, robes, belt, belt pouch,
spell component pouch, shoes,
priestly trappings (small idol or
holy symbol, jewellery of rank,
prayer beads and so on to a
value of 75 sp), incense worth
50 sp, ink, quill, parchment
Dagger, doublet and hose, work
boots, shirt and braes, cloak,
hood, costrel, spell component
pouch, belt pouch, belt, incense
worth 100 sp, herbalist’s kit, quill,
ink, 10 sheets parchment, crafter’s
tools (any)
Soldier 200 +
10d6 sp
Broadsword, poniard, any
shield, steel cap, quilted
jerkin, cloak, doublet and
hose, work boots, shirt and
braes, hood, costrel, belt
pouch, kit bag, belt
Bill, arming sword, crossbow,
10 bolts, poniard, any shield,
steel cap, quilted jerkin, cloak,
doublet and hose, work boots,
shirt and braes, hood, costrel,
belt pouch, kit bag, belt
War sword, poniard, bow (any
+0), 20 arrows, any shield, steel
cap, leather jerkin, cloak, doublet
and hose, work boots, shirt and
braes, hood, costrel, belt pouch,
kit bag, belt
Temptress 100 +
10d6 sp
Stiletto, masterwork thieves’
tools, shift, dress or doublet
and hose, cloak, shoes, hat,
kit bag, belt, belt pouch.
Thieves’ tools, stiletto, shift,
shoes, noble’s dress.
Dagger, shift, robes or dress, spell
component pouch, belt, belt
pouch, shoes, quill, ink, 10 sheets
parchment, herbalist’s kit.
Thief 100 +
10d6 sp
Arming sword, thieves’ tools,
cloak, doublet and hose,
work boots, shirt and braes,
hood, costrel, belt pouch, kit
bag, belt
Masterwork thieves’ tools,
poniard, cloak, doublet and
hose, work boots, shirt and
braes, hood, costrel, belt
pouch, kit bag, belt
Short sword, dagger, sling, 10
bullets, thieves’ tools, quilted
jack, cloak, doublet and hose,
work boots, shirt and braes, hood,
costrel, belt pouch, kit bag, belt
79
Classes
even strangers are given hospitality and fallen foes are
extended mercy if they ask for it, since it is recognised
that humanity must to some extent work together against
the bitter cold or suffocating heat. Barbarian tribes who
have a relatively easy time of it, such as the Picts in their
lush forests, do not usually have a need for a code of
honour, for their environment is not sufficiently deadly
as to be their most dangerous enemy. It could be argued
that the presence of a code of honour is what separates a
barbarian from a mere savage.
A character with a barbaric code of honour will:
* Respect alliances with other honourable characters.
* Ignore an alliance with a dishonourable character, even
pre-emptively, if it suits him.
* Abide loyally by a contract of employment, even with
a dishonourable employer, so long as the character is
well-treated and shown loyalty in return.
* Slay a dishonourable foe, even if that foe is helpless.
* Slay an honourable foe who is not helpless.
* Protect those weaker than himself, at least from physical
dangers, if such protection is requested. This includes
ordinary folk such as peasants captured for interrogation
who will be set free once it is safe to do so and rewarded
if they were of assistance, as well as children and most
women. A woman who has demonstrated herself to be
more capable in war than the average man need not
be protected, though the typical male with a barbaric
code of honour will probably attempt to protect her
anyway.
* Offer his allegiance only to an honourable leader
who is clearly stronger and better suited for power
than himself, or to a greater cause of some kind; once
allegiance is granted, the character must be utterly loyal
so long as his leader remains honourable and loyal to
him in return. Note that a character with a barbaric
code of honour need not necessarily retain an allegiance
that was always intended to be temporary, such as a
mercenary contract, after its conditions are fulfilled.
* Plunder and rob anyone other than honourable allies.
* Lie, cheat and con anyone other than honourable allies.
* Have no in-principle objection to slavery, being willing
to keep or free slaves as suits his purposes.
* Grudgingly respect genuine piety but despise venal
priests and the typical trappings of civilised ‘religion.’
* Like or dislike others based on their honour and their
actions, not their religion or race.
* Be hospitable and generous to those in need, even to
strangers. It is said that no man starves in Cimmeria
unless there is a famine and all starve, because
every family will give of their own food to
anyone without.
* Respect the hospitality shown him.
* Avenge any seriously intended insult with immediate
and lethal force, if at all possible. Note that barbarians
new to civilisation are likely to avenge even a jesting
insult in the same way, not having yet learnt the
subtleties of civilised behaviour, which can allow a
man to insult another without the imminent danger of
having his skull split.
* Avenge any physical harm done him at his earliest
opportunity in a manner fitting his sense of balance
and justice.
A character with a barbaric code of honour will not:
* Slay a wild animal or any other creature for sport alone.
He may slay in self-defence, for revenge or to get food
or other resources and he may slay a sworn enemy.
* Slay an honourable foe who offers a ransom or throws
himself on the character’s mercy.
* Slay or steal from someone who has shown him
hospitality in his own house, even if he turns
out to be an enemy, unless the other breaks
hospitality first.
* Harm anyone currently under his protection or
receiving his hospitality, even if he turns out to be an
enemy, unless the other breaks faith first.
* Assist the authorities with any information about his
friends or allies, even if refusing to do so puts him at
risk.
* Desert his henchmen or retainers, even if they appear
to desert him. If he ever achieves the position of
chieftain or a similar authority, he feels he must set
an example to his followers. Even if they doubt him,
he must prove himself to them, particularly if they
need him.
Civilised Code
of Honour
This is the code of honour practiced by
most knights and nobles from the civilised
lands. Some civilised warriors, soldiers and
mercenaries also practice this code of honour.
A character with a civilised code of honour
will:
* Respect alliances with other honourable
civilised characters. He may
also respect alliances with
honourable barbaric characters
but this is not required.
80
Classes
* Respect an alliance with a dishonourable civilised
character until that character breaks the alliance.
* Offer his allegiance to any leader who might be regarded
as a legitimate authority, or to a greater cause of some
kind; once he grants his allegiance, the character must
be utterly loyal, so long as his leader or cause remains
honourable and loyal to him in return. Note that
a character with a civilised code of honour need not
necessarily retain an allegiance that was always intended
to be temporary, such as a mercenary contract, after the
conditions are fulfilled.
* If seriously insulted, demand a formal duel at the
next suitable opportunity. Honour may also be
satisfied with sincere and profuse apologies, at
the discretion of the insulted party.
* Protect those weaker than
himself, if such protection is
formally requested and if
the person requesting
protection is
highborn.
* Obey the laws of his homeland and co-operate with
lawful authorities in other lands wherever possible,
unless at war with those lands. This applies even
if such behaviour would be to the detriment of his
friends or allies.
* Have no in-principle objection to slavery, being willing
to keep or free slaves as suits his purposes.
* Respect religious authorities.
* If religious, make war upon the enemies of his religion
without showing mercy or offering quarter.
A character with a civilised code of honour will not:
* Break the law of the land, unless he has formally
thrown in his lot with an organised and (in his opinion)
legitimate force of rebels.
* Slay an honourable foe who offers a ransom or throws
himself on the character’s mercy, unless ordered to do
so by a legitimate authority. Even in the latter case,
if the character believes that such an order indicates
that the authority is no longer legitimate, he may
at the Games Master’s discretion be able to avoid
killing the foe, so long as he immediately attempts
to remove the illegitimate authority from power;
this may involve something along the lines of the
rebellion mentioned above.
* Slay a dishonourable foe of noble birth who offers a
ransom or throws himself on the character’s mercy,
unless ordered to do so by a legitimate authority.
* Knowingly work for a dishonourable employer.
* Attack peasants or ordinary civilians and tradesmen,
unless those folk have openly rebelled against a
lawful authority.
Mercenary
Code of Honour
Although they wander far to make their way as
‘sellswords,’ many mercenaries live by a code of honour.
Ruthless but not without principles, these mercenaries
are highly sought after and renowned for always fulfilling
their contracts to the letter.
A character with a mercenary code of honour will:
* Demand half of all promised payment up front if
payment is to be a lump sum.
* Demand two months’ payment in advance if payment
is to be monthly.
* Notify other mercenaries if a client does not pay.
* Require the client to spell out exactly what will
satisfy the requirements of employment, preferably in
writing.
* Fulfil all requirements of employment.
81
Classes
* Maintain confidentiality concerning who hired him
and what he is asked to do.
* Only work for competing employers after 30 days of a
contract’s expiry.
A character with a mercenary code of honour will not:
* Betray or disobey his employer, no matter what his
master asks of him or what bribes are offered.
* Violate any explicitly stated requirements of
employment.
* Violate the confidentiality of his employer including
revealing what he was hired to do.
* Take assignments from his employer’s competitors
before 30 days have elapsed.
* Take any risks or perform any difficult deeds without
payment (in money or in kind), unless those deeds
bring immediate personal reward to the mercenary.
Losing a Code of Honour
Any character who voluntarily breaks his code of honour
immediately loses its benefits.
The character may regain his code of honour if he seeks out
a priest who can provide atonement (see page 339), so long
as he worships the same gods as that priest and the priest has
a code of honour of his own. The priest will set the character
a task which must be fulfilled before full atonement
can take place.
An irreligious character or one who cannot find a suitable
priest may attempt to right a wrong himself somehow. The
Games Master will always be the judge of how much needs
to be done in this case before the code of honour can be
regained but generally it should be at least as much of a
challenge as a task set by a priest.



The Warrior Way – A New
Code of Honour
Caught somewhere between the Barbaric and Mercenary
Codes, this is a new path that characters in Conan the
Roleplaying Game can choose to prescribe to, showing
their dedication to the pure sense of battle and survival
by the strong. It grants the same benefi ts as any other
Code of Honour, as shown on page 77 of Conan the
Roleplaying Game: Second Edition.
The Warrior Way code of honour is commonly taught
amongst military communities and violent cultures.
Where cities grow smaller and the population becomes
more inclined to barbarism, the Warrior Way is too rigid
and unforgiving to serve its fi ghters.
The Warrior Way teaches that combat and fi ghting are
tools to survival, glory and perhaps fortune for those
strong enough in will and arms to follow it. It takes a
great deal of dedication and personal willpower to adhere
to any code of honour, but the Warrior Way is more of a
life plan that users should use to shape their future.
A warrior respects his foes before, during and after
combat, seeing them as brethren of a sort despite their
obvious confl icts. The saying ‘live by the sword, die
by the sword’ is a strong tenet of the Warrior Way, as
anyone dedicating themselves to a warrior’s
life understands that they put themselves in harm’s way
whenever they utilise their own talents. Bandits and
highwaymen use trickery and stealth to get the better
of their opponents, a warrior uses his skill and resolute
ability. The Warrior Way is a code of ethics that mixes
survival and drive with personal honour and a respect for
others following a similar way of thinking.
A character with a Warrior Way code of honour will:
* Respect alliances with characters in a warrior’s
lifestyle (but not necessarily the Warrior Way).
He may also respect alliances with honourable
mercenary or barbaric characters but this is not
strictly required.
* Ignore alliances with dishonourable characters,
breaking them as soon as they show their true
colours.
* Dedicate allegiance to the people for which he fi ghts.
Whether it is a governmental army, family members,
mercenary soldiers, etc, he must wield his weapons
on their behalf fi rst and foremost.
* Show no mercy to dishonourable foes.
* Accept surrender from honourable foes.
* Offer generosity to any captured or surrendered
enemy that has shown honourable ways.
* Stand and fi ght alongside his allies whenever they
need him and be ready to kill for their safety.
* Recognise the skill and ability of greater warriors
by not questioning their battlefi eld decisions, only
debating them outside of the situation if they are
disagreeable to him. Doubt and questions in the hectic
chaos of a battle causes people to get hurt or killed,
and any dedicated warrior will not add unnecessary
danger to any combat scenario.
* Save violent actions for his enemies, turning not his
weapons upon his allies in anger. Arguments and
physical altercations should never reach the level
of crossed weaponry; such degrees of
bloodshed cannot be taken back
when undertaken.
* Have no objection to slavery
or the mistreatment of lower
caste members, unless he has
The Way of the Warrior
What is a Warrior?
For the purposes of this sourcebook, a
warrior is not simply someone who goes
off to do battle. Warriors are devoted
learners of the martial ways of combat,
making their weapons and armour into
the tools of their trade.
In essence, the term warrior in this
book refers to a devotee of the Warrior
Way, a true disciple of the ideals
surrounding combat.
6
The Way
previously chosen to fi ght on behalf of the slaves or
lower caste members.
* Put his duties and resources behind someone or
something he believes is strong enough to utilise
them properly. No warrior wants to be called upon
for lesser activities, or those actions he feels are
dishonourable. Note that a character on the Warrior
Way does not have to be heroic or altruistic; he
merely will not choose to fi ght for reasons that are
either physically, mentally or morally beneath him.
* Defend any religious, political or personal ideal with
strength of arms if he feels it is necessary.
* Always accept honourable challenges for one-on-one
combat with warriors of near equal battle prowess.
A character with a Warrior Way code of honour will
not:
* Draw a weapon in anger without the resolve and will
to use it. True warriors do not make threats they are
not inclined to make good upon.
* Turn against that for which he fi ghts for newly offered
money or power. A warrior that dedicates his sword
arm to a cause cannot allow himself to be swayed by
greed or avarice.
* Use poison, toxin or drugs upon his weaponry to
give him an edge in combat. True warriors need only
their skill and strength to overcome their foes, not
trickery.
* Show mercy to a sorcerous or maddened foe; they
cannot be trusted to be taken captive and are more
dangerous when the warrior’s guard is down.
* Accept a challenge from an obviously lesser
opponent. He must always choose another of closer
skill or prowess to fi ght in his stead, if possible.
* Willingly accept magical or sorcerous aid in the
form of spells or rituals during battle. Battle magic
is the worst form of dishonour to a warrior, and
only the weak hide behind arcane talents instead
of the strength of their skills. Monastic scholars
that practice martial mysticism do not cast spells or
perform rituals exactly, and therefore are exempt to
this edict of the Warrior Way.
