Weapon Descriptions
Arbalest: This is a heavy and powerful steel-framed
crossbow, designed for penetrating armour and long-range
effectiveness. An arbalest is very slow to load, as it must be
braced against the ground and laboriously ‘spanned’ with a
mechanical device called a cranequin before a new bolt can
be loaded in place. Reloading takes three full-round actions,
so few adventurers bother to reload their arbalests during
combat. An arbalest must be wielded with both hands.
Axe: The axe is an effective off-hand weapon or
backup weapon, easily carried in a loop on the belt and
reasonably effective against armour. It can also be used to
hook enemy weapons.
Bardiche: The bardiche is a heavy axe-blade mounted on a
thick ash shaft some four to six feet long. Though the blade
is also quite large, it is highly curved so as to concentrate
the initial impact in a very small area. This combination
allows for both excellent armour penetration and the
possibility of dealing heavy damage. The long doublehanded
war-axes of the Aesir and Vanir can also be
treated as bardiches.
Battleaxe: The battleaxe is a powerful
weapon, ideal for dealing
deadly overhead blows
from horseback but also
sufficiently well-balanced
for fast-moving
melee combat. Mounted mercenaries favour it especially,
since it is relatively cheap but highly effective against
armoured enemies.
Bill: This versatile polearm was originally derived from a
hedging tool mounted on a long shaft but is in common
use by heavy infantry and city watchmen alike. Nemedian
soldiers, police and mercenaries favour its use. A bill has
a spearhead, curved axe-head and hook, all forged from a
single blade and mounted on a shaft around six feet long.
In better quality weapons the shaft is protected by steel
langets that extend down most of its length from the head.
You can use a ready action to set a bill against a charge,
in which case it deals double damage on a successful hit
against a charging character. A bill may be used to make
trip attempts. A character who is wielding a bill and who
is tripped while making a trip attempt may drop the bill to
avoid being tripped in return.
Bow, Hunting: These small, simple bows are used around
the world, for both hunting and combat. Any bow other
than one of the regional longbows can be treated as a
hunting bow. Hunting bows require two hands for use.
They may be used while mounted. Hunting bows always
have an effective strength rating of +0 (see sidebar).
Bow, Hyrkanian: The Hyrkanian bow is a composite
bow made from horn, wood and sinew. A Hyrkanian
bow requires both hands to shoot and may be
used while mounted. All Hyrkanian bows have
strength ratings (see boxed text).
Heavy Mace
Mace
Yuetshi Knife
Club
Hatchet
Stiletto
Dagger
Knife
Hunting
Bow
Gauntlet
Sling
Javelin
War Spear
Hunting Spear
Staff
147
Equipment
Bow, Shemite: The Shemite bow is very similar to the
Hyrkanian bow. A Shemite bow requires both hands to
shoot and may be used while mounted. All Shemite bows
have strength ratings (see boxed text).
Bow, Stygian: The Stygian bow is heavy and powerful,
shooting a long, weighty arrow that does a great deal of
damage but does not travel as far as most other arrows.
A Stygian bow requires both hands to shoot and may
not be used while mounted, though the Stygian nobility
often use them from chariots. All Stygian bows have
strength ratings (see boxed text).
Broadsword: This heavy, slightly tapered sword is
intended for battlefield use and is often wielded by
knights expecting to face lightly armoured enemies. It is
too expensive for most mercenaries but many adventurers
favour broadswords for their good balance and reasonable
effectiveness against armour. Though the broadsword’s
handgrip is clearly only long enough for one hand to grip
it comfortably, the pommel is large and often disc-shaped,
allowing for a warrior to get his second hand behind
the blow if need be and use the weapon two-handed. A
broadsword being wielded two-handed can be
used as a finesse weapon if desired.
Club: The club is perhaps the simplest of man-made
weapons. It is most often found in primitive countries
but may also be used by peasants and city mobs
in more civilised nations.
Club,War: War clubs are used by warriors who cannot
afford anything better or who live in areas where better
weapons are not generally manufactured.
Crossbow: Crossbows are favoured by
countries that do not have many troops
capable of wielding any type of longbow,
which includes many of the Hyborian
nations. A crossbow is effective but the
experienced warrior will find that a bow of
any kind allows a far more rapid rate of fire.
A crossbow requires two hands to fire. It may
be reloaded as a full-round action.
Cutlass: Cutlasses are shorter than
broadswords but almost as heavy and
damaging. For this reason they are
much-used by pirates, who need
a weapon that is not likely to get
entangled in rigging or stuck in
the low ceilings below
Strength Ratings for Bows
All bows are made with a certain ‘pull’. The greater the pull, the more force can be put behind the arrow but the
harder the bow is to draw. In game terms, all bows are made with a strength rating. A strength rating is given
as the Strength modifier the weapon is ideally suited for and is given in brackets after the bow. For example,
a Bossonian longbow made for a character of Strength 8 to 9 would be written as a ‘Bossonian longbow (–1)’
whereas a Shemite bow made for a character of Strength 16 or 17 would be written as a ‘Shemite bow (+3).’
The strength rating of a bow indicates the maximum amount of additional damage from Strength that can be
added to the damage of its arrows. A character shooting a bow always modifies damage and Armour Piercing
ratings with the worse of his Strength modifier and the strength rating of the bow. In addition, a character
whose Strength modifier is less than the strength rating of the bow has a –2 circumstance penalty on his attack
rolls with that bow.
For longbows with strength ratings of +1 or above, the cost to buy the bow is increased by +20 sp for each +1
of the strength rating.
For example, a character of Strength 16 has a Strength bonus of +3. If he were proficient with the Bossonian
longbow, the ideal weapon for him to wield would be a Bossonian longbow (+3), at a cost of 80 sp. He would
deal 1d10+3 damage with this weapon and it would have an Armour Piercing value of 8. If he instead chose
a Bossonian longbow (+2) at a cost of 60 sp, he would only deal 1d10+2 damage (AP 7). If he picked up a
Bossonian longbow (+4), he would still deal only 1d10+3 damage (AP 8) and suffer a –2 penalty on his attack
rolls with it.
If, on the other hand, a character with Strength 8 picked up a Bossonian longbow (+1) he would deal 1d10–1
damage with an Armour Piercing value of 4, and suffer a –2 penalty on his attack rolls with it.
148
Equipment
Martial Weapons
Weapon Cost Damage Critical
Armour
Piercing
Range
Increment Hardness
Hit
Points Weight Type
Light Melee Weapons
Axe F 3 sp 1d8 ×3 1** 10 ft. 5 3 2 lb. Slashing
Knife, Ghanata F 2 sp 1d8 ×2 1** 10 ft. 8 3 2 lb. Slashing
Pommel* * 1d4 ×2 1 — * * * Bludgeoning
Poniard F 10 sp 1d6 19–20/×2 1** 5 ft. 10 2 1 lb. Piercing
Sword, Short F 50 sp 1d8 19–20/×2 1 — 10 3 1½ lb. Slashing or
Piercing
One-Handed Melee Weapons
Battleaxe 5 sp 1d10 ×3 4 — 7 5 3 lb. Slashing
Broadsword* 125 sp 1d10 19–20/×2 3 — 10 5 2½ lb. Slashing
Cutlass 50 sp 1d10 19–20/×2 2 — 8 5 2 lb. Slashing
Knife, Zhaibar 25 sp 1d12 ×2 1 — 8 6 3 lb. Slashing
Lance, Heavy* 7 sp 1d10 ×3 3 — 5 8 7 lb. Piercing
Lance, Light* 5 sp 1d10 ×3 2 — 5 5 4 lb. Piercing
Scimitar 75 sp 1d8 18–20/×2 2 — 10 5 2½ lb. Slashing
Sword, Arming F 100 sp 1d10 19–20/×2 2 — 10 4 2 lb. Slashing or
Piercing
Warhammer 7 sp 1d6 ×3 7 — 7 4 4 lb. Bludgeoning
or Piercing
Two-Handed Melee Weapons
Bardiche 8 sp 1d10+1d8 ×3 5 — 7 10 7 lb. Slashing
Bill* 7 sp 2d8 ×3 6 — 7 10 6 lb. Slashing or
Piercing
Club, War 3 sp 2d6 ×2 4 — 5 10 6 lb. Bludgeoning
Pike* R 5 sp 2d6 ×3 2 — 5 8 10 lb. Piercing
Pollaxe* 8 sp 2d6 ×3 8 — 7 10 7 lb. Slashing or
Piercing
Sword, War* F 150 sp 1d12 19–20/×2 3 — 10 8 4 lb. Slashing or
Piercing
Ranged Weapons
Arbalest 15 sp 2d8 ×2 6** 70 ft. 6 5 20 lb. Piercing
Bolts (10) 3 sp — — — — 5 1 2 lb. —
Crossbow 12 sp 2d6 ×2 4** 60 ft. 5 4 15 lb. Piercing
Bolts (10) 2 sp — — — — 5 1 1 lb. —
* See the weapon description for special rules.
F Finesse weapon
R Reach weapon
** The Armour Piercing score for all ranged weapons is
reduced by one for each range increment beyond the first.
149
Equipment
decks. Any one-handed weapon larger than the cutlass that
is wielded in a low-ceilinged environment is used with a –2
circumstance penalty to the attack roll.
Dagger: The dagger is an all-purpose weapon and tool that
is carried by almost everyone in the Hyborian countries
over the age of 10 or so. Most daggers have double-edged
blades, making them more useful for stabbing than cutting
but they are still short and handy enough to have many
roles outside of combat.
Gauntlet: Gauntlets come free with all medium and heavy
armours but some characters may elect to buy a gauntlet
by itself as a weapon. A gauntlet cannot be removed with a
disarm action (see page 206).
Greatsword: Possibly the most powerful weapon fielded on
the battlefield by most Hyborian nations, the greatsword
is a large, no-nonsense killing sword. Adventurers of
Nemedia are particularly noted for wielding greatswords
but most other Hyborian armies arm at least a few knights
with this deadly weapon.
Hatchet: The hatchet is more of a woodsman’s tool than a
weapon, though it is often pressed into service in combat.
Many armies carry a number of hatchets too, simply for
cutting firewood, though a lowly man-at-arms or mercenary
may certainly carry one onto the battlefield.
Javelin: The javelin is a light throwing spear that is rarely
seen among the Hyborian military but that is
sometimes used by more primitive armies. It is
rather better balanced for throwing than the hunting spear
but is a little too fragile for effective use in melee combat.
Knife: A short, single-edged cutting tool, the knife can
only really be effective as a weapon against unarmoured
or defenceless foes.
Knife, Ghanata: The Ghanata knife is commonly used
by the tribesmen of the Southern Desert. It is two feet
long, heavy, razor-sharp and slightly curved.
Knife, Yuetshi: The Yuetshi knife is a long, saw-edged
knife with a crescent-shaped blade. It is wielded by the
Yuetshi fishermen of the southern Vilayet sea.
Knife, Zhaibar: The Zhaibar knife is as long as
most swords, though it is shaped very much
like a large knife and has a thicker blade than
any sword. It is used throughout Ghulistan.
Its blade is three feet long, triangular and
intended for slashing rather than thrusting.
Most Zhaibar knives are bone-handled.
Lance, Heavy: A heavy lance used from
the back of a charging mount does double
damage and has a +2 circumstance bonus
to its Armour Piercing rating. A heavy
lance has reach: one can use it
against opponents 10 feet away
but not against an adjacent enemy.
Heavy lances are intended for use
when mounted and are
War
Club
Cutlass
Zhaibar
Knife
Axe
Short
Sword
Ghanata
Knife
Battleaxe
Poniard
Warhammer
Scimitar
Broad
Sword
Arming
Sword
Bardiche
Pollaxe
Bill
Light Lance
Heavy Lance
Pike
150
Equipment
unbalanced for use on foot; if used while dismounted, treat
a heavy lance as a war spear with a –2 circumstance penalty
to all attack rolls.
Lance, Light: A light lance used from the back of a charging
mount does double damage and has a +1 circumstance
bonus to its Armour Piercing rating. Light lances are
intended for use when mounted but can still be reasonably
effective on foot; if used while dismounted, treat a light
lance as a hunting spear.
Longbow, Bossonian: The Bossonian longbow has justly
made the Bossonian Marches famous for the quality and
deadliness of their archers. This massive yew bow does not
have quite the range of the Hyrkanian or Shemite bows but
the Bossonian archers make up for this with deadly accuracy
when the enemy is within range and utter steadfastness when
he is not. A Bossonian longbow requires both hands to
shoot and may not be used while mounted. All Bossonian
longbows have strength ratings (see page 147).
Mace, Heavy or Light: The mace consists of a
wooden or metal shaft topped with a heavy, blunt
striking surface, usually flanged or ball-shaped.
It is very effective against armour,
crushing both the protection and
the warrior inside it.
Pike: Pikes are extremely
long spears, highly
effective in massed
ranks but very
unwieldy in close combat. A pike is a special variety of reach
weapon. A character wielding a pike can attack opponents
who are 20 feet away but cannot attack opponents
closer than that.
Pollaxe: With an axe-head backed by a warhammer-head,
the whole thing surmounted by a spear-point, the pollaxe is
a versatile if heavy weapon. The ash shaft is usually around
four to five feet long and is protected by steel langets. A
character can use a ready action to set a pollaxe against a
charge, in which case it deals double damage on a successful
hit against a charging character.
Pommel: A pommel is the heavy steel counterweight on
every sword-hilt. The following weapons can all be used
to make pommel attacks: dagger, poniard, Ghanata knife,
short sword, Zhaibar knife, arming sword, broad sword,
scimitar, cutlass, sabre, war sword, greatsword and tulwar.
Pommel attacks are useful when one wishes to make a
bludgeoning attack or when one needs to use a light weapon
– for example, when grappling an enemy. A pommel can
also be used to make a stun attempt using the Stunning
Attack feat if a character has it.
Poniard: The poniard is a heavy, long dagger designed
for war and favoured by fighting men as an off-hand or
secondary weapon. The blade is usually fifteen to nineteen
inches long, with the pommel, guard and handle bringing
the total size of the weapon to over two feet.
Sabre: The sabre is a common cavalry weapon in the
East. It is intended for one-handed use from horseback
Bossonian
Longbow
Stygian
Bow
Hyrkanian
Bow
Shemite
Bow
War Sword
Greatsword Tulwar
Sabre
Arbalest
Crossbow
Whip
151
Equipment
or two-handed use on foot. Although it is classified
as an exotic weapon, it may be wielded as a martial
weapon by a mounted character or by a character using
it in both hands.
Scimitar: The scimitar is the Eastern equivalent of the
sword, with a heavy, curved blade that provides extreme
cutting power. It is the most common weapon among
Hyrkanian and Shemite nomads.
Sling: The second most basic projectile weapon – one
step up from throwing rocks – the sling is still highly
effective, hurling lead bullets capable of breaking limbs
or smashing skulls.
Spear, Hunting: The hunting spear is light enough to be
wielded with one hand and is commonly used in pairs, with
the first spear being flung and the second used to finish
off the wounded animal. Some warriors from primitive
countries use a hunting spear and shield in war.
Spear, War: The war spear is a long, heavy spear with a
broad, often leaf-shaped head. The war spear is a reach
weapon; a character wielding it may attack foes who are 10
feet away but may not attack adjacent enemies.
Staff: The staff is a thick piece of oak or ash fully eight
or nine feet long and usually shod at each end with iron.
When wielded with both hands close to the butt it provides
a good five to six feet of striking length when it is held
towards the enemy and used for thrusts, sweeps
and swings. A staff is a reach weapon but unlike
more usual reach weapons it may be used freely to attack
both adjacent opponents and those who are 10 feet away.
Stiletto: This is a long, narrow-bladed dagger, favoured at
court and much used by noble ladies and assassins.
Sword, Arming: The arming sword resembles the
broadsword but is slightly shorter and lighter and often
not quite so well made. Knights and mercenaries whose
main weapon is a broadsword, battleaxe, heavy mace or
two-handed weapon carry an arming sword as a backup
weapon and some archers and crossbowmen also use
it. Furthermore, it is the only weapon in its class
light enough to be a finesse weapon (see page
171). Well made, fancy-looking versions of
the arming sword are often worn about town
by nobles and other well-to-do types, since it
does not attract quite so much attention as the
more obviously military broadsword.
Sword, Short: The short sword is somewhere
between the arming sword and poniard in
length, with a blade some two feet long
or a little longer. It is handy, concealable
and can be used as a finesse weapon,
making it much favoured by thieves
and skirmishers.
Sword, War: Also known as a
bastard sword or hand-and-ahalf
sword, the war sword
Exotic Weapons
Weapon Cost Damage Critical
Armour
Piercing
Range
Increment Hardness
Hit
Points Weight Type
One-Handed Melee Weapons
Sabre 125 sp 1d10 18–20/×2 2 — 10 8 4 lb. Slashing
Sword, War* 150 sp 1d12 19–20/×2 3 — 10 8 4 lb. Slashing
Whip* F 2 sp 1d4 ×2 — — 2 2 1 lb. Slashing
Two-Handed Melee Weapons
Greatsword 200 sp 1d10+1d8 19–20/×2 4 — 10 10 6 lb. Slashing or
Piercing
Tulwar 150 sp 2d8 18–20/×2 3 — 10 10 6 lb. Slashing
Ranged Weapons
Bow,
Hyrkanian
25 sp 1d10 19–20/×2 3** 100 ft. 5 3 2 lb. Piercing
Arrows (20) 3 sp — — — — 5 1 3 lb. —
Bow, Shemite 25 sp 1d10 ×3 4** 100 ft. 5 3 2 lb. Piercing
Arrows (20) 3 sp — — — — 5 1 3 lb. —
Bow, Stygian 30 sp 1d12 19–20/×2 2** 60 ft. 5 4 3 lb. Piercing
Arrows (20) 4 sp — — — — 5 1 4 lb. —
Longbow,
Bossonian
20 sp 1d12 ×3 5** 80 ft. 5 3 2 lb. Piercing
Arrows (20) 3 sp — — — — 5 1 3 lb. —
* See the weapon description for special rules. F Finesse weapon R Reach weapon
** The Armour Piercing score for all ranged weapons is reduced by one for each range increment beyond the first.
152
Equipment
is intended for one-handed use from horseback or twohanded
use on foot. Although it is classified as an exotic
weapon, it may be wielded as a martial weapon by a
mounted character or by a character using it in both hands.
Any time a war sword is being wielded in two hands, it
may be used as a finesse weapon and to make piercing
attacks. The table below summarises the various uses of
the war sword.
Movement Hands Used Classification Finesse?
Mounted One Handed Martial No
Mounted Two Handed Exotic Yes
On Foot One Handed Exotic No
On Foot Two Handed Martial Yes
Tulwar: This two-handed, heavy curved sword resembles a
massive scimitar. It is wielded for its sheer cutting power and
sometimes as symbol of rank among warriors of the East.
Unarmed Strike: When you have lost your broadsword
and poniard, or when you just want to prove a point, a fist
to the jaw can be a devastatingly effective weapon.
Warhammer: Though referred to as a warhammer, this
weapon has a head that more closely resembles a meat
tenderiser, which is used for bashing in the joints of an
armoured opponent. The spike on the reverse of the head
looks a little like a pickaxe blade and can be used to pierce
right through heavy armour. The head is mounted on a
three-foot long shaft of ash, allowing for good leverage.
Whip: A whip deals nonlethal damage, though if it inflicts
four or more damage in a single blow one point of this
damage is considered to be lethal damage. It deals no
damage to any creature with damage reduction of three or
higher, whether from armour or natural DR. The whip is
treated as a melee weapon with 15-foot reach, though one
does not threaten the area into which one can make an
attack. In addition, unlike most other weapons with reach,
one can use the whip against foes anywhere within reach,
including adjacent foes. Using a whip provokes an attack
of opportunity, just as if one had used a ranged weapon.
A character can make trip attacks with a whip. If one is
tripped during his own trip attempt, he can drop the
whip to avoid being tripped. When using a whip, a
character get a +2 bonus on opposed attack rolls
made to disarm an opponent, including the roll
to keep from being disarmed if the attack
fails. Whips are finesse weapons.
A whip can also be used to
torture captives, granting
a +2 circumstance bonus
to all Profession
(torturer) tests. The whip is assumed to be a large bullwhip,
capable of inflicting serious pain and some injury; a cheaper
cat o’ nine tails or similar light whip can be made for one
sp. This light whip is not a weapon but can be used to deal
one point of lethal damage and 1d4 nonlethal damage per
minute on an unarmoured, helpless opponent.

Additional Weapon Descriptions
Aquilonian Shieldknife: Given to advance infantry officers in Aquilonia, the shieldknife is a short, wide blade that is held in the shield hand. When the soldier loses his spear or sword the shieldknife is always a good secondary weapon that can be at the ready despite having a shield in the same hand. A character holding an Aquilonian shieldknife in the same hand/arm as a buckler, aspis or targe can consider it equipped for the purposes of attacks despite the shield's presence.
Bladespear: A spear haft topped with a long blade similar to a scimitar's, the bladespear is designed like a smaller polearm, but is often held high on the haft and used at close quarters. Many Turanian hoplites use bladespears, giving them excellent versatility. The wielder of a bladespear can alter his grip on the weapon as a move action, changing it to or from a reach weapon.
Cudgel: A cudgel is a specialised form of club that has an enlarged head for short swings. A number of Cimmerian clans and Pictish tribes use cudgels as their standard infantry weapon due to their inexpensive nature.
Discus: A flat disk of fire-baked clay or chiselled stone, the discus is an implement often used in Argossean tests of physical skill. When hurled properly, the discus can reach great distances at remarkable speeds, making it a deadly projectile. Unlike most ranged attacks, the Armour Piercing rating of a discus is never lowered for the distance it travels.
Flail: This awkward but powerful weapon is a favourite of gladiators and heavy infantry. A flail is a stout rod of hard wood that has a metre-long series of chain links driven into one end that attach to the weapon's head - a cylinder of metal or stone often set with spikes or bladed flanges. Because of the whipping motion and arm strength it requires to wield a flail, few are skilled enough to use it. Flail attacks made by a proficient wielder impose a -3 penalty on the Parry Defence of a target (Dodge Defence is unchanged).
Halberd: One of the more difficult weapons to manufacture, the traditional halberd is a polearm topped with a wide axe-like blade that has a single spike at the top. Expensive to create due to the amount of skill it takes to forge the head properly, halberds are not often chosen as standard infantry weapons. They are more frequently seen in the hands of elite soldiers or royal guards.
Half-Spear: A half-spear is exactly what it sounds like; a common spear with half the haft cut off and the remaining amount wrapped in leather to form a long 'hilt' of sorts. It is an excellent stabbing weapon for warriors who need to draw in close, or for spearmen that cannot afford to struggle with a long haft in a tunnel or tight pass. As a note, any spear can be turned into a half-spear permanently by breaking off two-and-a-half feet of its haft.
Hook: A wicked-looking weapon wielded by pirates and pit fighters, the hook is a bent iron or bronze rod that has been filed to a point or blade. The weapon is often driven into a crossbar of wood, but some have been used to replace shorn hands on unlucky warriors that want to replace their loss with a useful tool.
Horsebow: Used by Hyrkanian horse riders. The horsebow is an oversized hunting bow with a pronounced lower curve perfectly suited for use on the back of a warhorse. These bows can fire regular arrows (at -2 damage), but are designed to use much longer ammunition. These special arrows gain a +2 bonus to hit and damage when fired from horseback at targets within the first range increment.
Hyborian Pick: In the ages before the greatsword became the traditional weapon of Hyborian peoples, weapons derived from tools were much more common. A good pick was useful for early settlements, and so the sharpened iron tools became good for war as well. These weapons still find use in the hands of some lower class warriors.
Katar: The triangular blade of the katar punch-dagger is perfect for driving between the joints of heavy armour, and is commonly used in Vendhya as the secondary weapon of lancers and noble guardsmen.
Knuckledusters: A metal rod inserted in front of the knuckles of a sewn leather glove or gauntlet, knuckledusters add some impact and lethality to the wearer's punches.
Kusani Axe: Used almost solely by the royal headsmen of the tribes of Kusan, the Kusani axe is a sickle-bladed poleaxe that puts a massive amount of impact behind each swing. The haft of each axe is as big around as a man's arm, allowing for a much longer reach on every swing - if the wielder's arms are strong enough.
Kushknife: Named for the long-bladed knives carried by the Esshura tribe of mercenary tribesmen, each Kushknife is carved from one piece of bone before being soaked in a variety of saps and waxes to give it a near-metal hardness and edge. Long, slender and wickedly sharp, the Kushknife is perfect for shearing through the light armour of Kushite tribal folk.
Light Axe: The light axe is small like a hatchet, but has a slightly longer haft to hold a thinner but longer head. Similar to a throwing axe in shape but reinforced for melee fighting, the light axe is a good counterpart to any one-handed weapon.
Long Darts: Wooden lengths tipped with metal points and fletched with thick goose or swan feathers, long darts are like miniature javelins. Skirmishers and hurlers in small units can inflict heavy casualties on lightly armoured targets with volleys of these missiles.
Long Arrows: Long arrows are half-again the normal length of a common arrow and tipped with a wider head of hammered metal. They have a short and head-heavy flight pattern, which is perfect for the firing style of a horsebow.
Machete: A stout piece of metal driven into a wooden handle and sharpened on one edge, the machete is perfect for cleaving limbs as well as underbrush. Characters that use a machete to travel through jungle or heavy forested areas can add a +2 bonus to their Survival skill to navigate such terrain.
Maul: Heavy wooden hammers with large square heads, mauls are used for driving tent poles or picket stakes in single overhead swings. Someone with strong enough upper body strength can also deliver bone-crushing blows with a maul and some warriors reinforce these tools with iron bands or spikes to create 'war mauls'.
Pommel Spike: A simple six-inch sharpened spike added to the pommel of any sword, this is often a weapon of opportunity. When in too close to use a warrior's blade effectively, the pommel spike can be quickly thrust down onto an enemy's arms, shoulders or even face to inflict grievous blows where otherwise they would have to withdraw and attack anew. Any weapon with an attached pommel spike counts as always having a light off-hand weapon that can be used when grappling as normal.
Stygian Scimitar: A localised variant of the common single-bladed, curved sword, the Stygian scimitar has a distinct shape. The blade has an end that is twice as wide as where it connects with its hilt, and a flare to its back side that is given a sharpened edge to inflict wounds on the fore and backswing of the deadly sword.
Swordfist: A weapon of gladiators, the swordfist is a forged metal gauntlet with no fingers. Instead of having any flexibility to it, the gauntlet is actually a brace for a two-foot long straight sword blade. Using a swordfist allows the wielder to use either his unarmed or sword styled feats and abilities. For instance, a warrior with a swordfist could use his Weapon Focus (unarmed) or Improved Critical (shortsword), but not both.
Trident: This three-pronged weapon is a variant of that used to catch large fish off the coast of Argos and Zingara. It is a heavy and expensive weapon that requires specialised training, but the wounds it inflicts are terrible indeed.
War Gauntlet: A heavier version of the common gauntlet, a war gauntlet is actually a full armlet of riveted metal that protects up to the elbow joint. Along the back of the thick fingers are rows of spines or sometimes even blades, with a set of jagged protrusions following suit to the bottom of the forearm. Although its design means that no weapon may be wielded or fine manipulation performed by that hand, its extensive metal construction does give the wearer the benefits of wearing a buckler shield.
Warmace: The warmace is a common sight amongst Black Kingdoms warriors, as it is frequently used by their elite warriors to smash their foes to ruin. It is a solid piece of wood or bone (rarely metal) that has a dozen or more blades of copper or volcanic glass set in its wider end. The warmace inflicts heinous wounds when it strikes vital areas.
